SOURCE: https://buffalonews.com/news/local/business/health-care/article_60dfca30-2ffa-4c55-ae41-5002299cf0ef.html
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-25 via curl
TITLE: New director named to lead Buffalo, Batavia VA medical centers
PUBLISHED: ?

It has been a busy last several years for the VA Western New York Healthcare System, which includes two medical centers in Buffalo and Batavia…

Get the latest local business news delivered FREE to your inbox weekly.

The Buffalo VA Medical Center in Buffalo is seen in this 2024 file video

"There are concerns that the oncology department mishandled referrals for cancer treatment, leading to unacceptable delays for some of our vet…

Over 54 pages, the report paints a picture of a VA Western New York Healthcare System where local system administrators failed to address leng…

Effective Monday, Harold Pharis will become the interim medical center director of the health system.

© Copyright 2026
                        The Buffalo News, 726 Exchange St. Buffalo, NY 14210

A Lee Enterprises, Incorporated newspaper. Majority shareholder: David Hoffmann, Hoffmann Media Group.

Terms of Use
                        |
                        Privacy Policy
                        |
                        Advertising Terms of Use
                        |
                            Privacy Choices
                            |
                            Cookie Preferences

Powered by BLOX Content Management System from bloxdigital.com.

Must be at least 8 characters, not contain repeating characters (e.g., 111), and not contain sequential numbers (e.g., 123).

Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password.

Must be at least 8 characters, not contain repeating characters (e.g., 111), and not contain sequential numbers (e.g., 123).

Secure transaction.
            Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.

Your gift purchase was successful!
                                        Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.