SOURCE: https://buffalonews.com/news/local/business/health-care/article_9d3423ce-b33d-11ef-ac8c-2f358e4fe8b9.html
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-25 via curl
TITLE: Other projects in line before Buffalo VA hospital replacement, top VA official says
PUBLISHED: ?

The U.S. Government Accountability Office's nationwide evaluation of the VA's community care consults will include a review of practices around scheduling patient treatment, especially for high-risk and complex conditions, as well as how the VA handles concerns raised by patients and health care providers in cases of delayed treatment.

The top health official at the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs on Monday visited the embattled Buffalo VA Medical Center.

Get the latest local business news delivered FREE to your inbox weekly.

U.S. Rep. Nick Langworthy spoke Thursday outside the Buffalo VA Medical Center to address concerns over mismanaged oncology referrals.

Friday's devastating report about delays in care at the Buffalo VA Medical Center – which, in one case, amplified the suffering of a terminall…

An investigation into alleged administrative failures at the Buffalo VA Medical Center has been completed, and the probe's findings could soon…

"There are concerns that the oncology department mishandled referrals for cancer treatment, leading to unacceptable delays for some of our vet…

The VA did not respond to a follow-up question about whether Michael J. Swartz, executive director of the VA Western New York Healthcare Syste…

The VA could still one day build a new Buffalo hospital – but that is something that would be "probably 20 to 25 years down the road."

© Copyright 2026
                        The Buffalo News, 726 Exchange St. Buffalo, NY 14210

A Lee Enterprises, Incorporated newspaper. Majority shareholder: David Hoffmann, Hoffmann Media Group.

Terms of Use
                        |
                        Privacy Policy
                        |
                        Advertising Terms of Use
                        |
                            Privacy Choices
                            |
                            Cookie Preferences

Powered by BLOX Content Management System from bloxdigital.com.

Must be at least 8 characters, not contain repeating characters (e.g., 111), and not contain sequential numbers (e.g., 123).

Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password.

Must be at least 8 characters, not contain repeating characters (e.g., 111), and not contain sequential numbers (e.g., 123).

Secure transaction.
            Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.

Your gift purchase was successful!
                                        Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.