SOURCE: https://buffalonews.com/news/local/business/health-care/article_f38ded34-171d-43ed-981c-c5c328354127.html
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-25 via curl
TITLE: Buffalo VA makes further changes in its leadership ranks
PUBLISHED: ?

The VA did not respond to a follow-up question about whether Michael J. Swartz, executive director of the VA Western New York Healthcare System, or Chief of Staff Dr. Philippe Jaoude could return to those roles, pending the outcome of the investigation.

Over 54 pages, the report paints a picture of a VA Western New York Healthcare System where local system administrators failed to address lengthy scheduling delays for patients with serious health conditions, even when staff repeatedly tried to alert leadership of how the lapses were affecting veterans.

The VA could still one day build a new Buffalo hospital – but that is something that would be "probably 20 to 25 years down the road."

Get the latest local business news delivered FREE to your inbox weekly.

The Buffalo VA Medical Center in Buffalo is seen in this 2024 file video

Effective Monday, Harold Pharis will become the interim medical center director of the health system.

© Copyright 2026
                        The Buffalo News, 726 Exchange St. Buffalo, NY 14210

A Lee Enterprises, Incorporated newspaper. Majority shareholder: David Hoffmann, Hoffmann Media Group.

Terms of Use
                        |
                        Privacy Policy
                        |
                        Advertising Terms of Use
                        |
                            Privacy Choices
                            |
                            Cookie Preferences

Powered by BLOX Content Management System from bloxdigital.com.

Must be at least 8 characters, not contain repeating characters (e.g., 111), and not contain sequential numbers (e.g., 123).

Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password.

Must be at least 8 characters, not contain repeating characters (e.g., 111), and not contain sequential numbers (e.g., 123).

Secure transaction.
            Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.

Your gift purchase was successful!
                                        Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.