SOURCE: https://buffalonews.com/news/local/business/health-care/article_f5e598b6-908a-11ef-9dfd-7fa587a2b778.html
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-25 via curl
TITLE: After Buffalo VA lapses, congressional watchdog to do nationwide review of VA community care referrals
PUBLISHED: ?

Over 54 pages, the report paints a picture of a VA Western New York Healthcare System where local system administrators failed to address lengthy scheduling delays for patients with serious health conditions, even when staff repeatedly tried to alert leadership of how the lapses were affecting veterans.

Friday's devastating report about delays in care at the Buffalo VA Medical Center – which, in one case, amplified the suffering of a terminally ill cancer patient – will probably not be the last such report.

Get the latest local business news delivered FREE to your inbox weekly.

U.S. Rep. Nick Langworthy spoke Thursday outside the Buffalo VA Medical Center to address concerns over mismanaged oncology referrals.

The federal government remains committed to building a new veterans hospital in Buffalo, but other major construction projects are in line ahe…

© Copyright 2026
                        The Buffalo News, 726 Exchange St. Buffalo, NY 14210

A Lee Enterprises, Incorporated newspaper. Majority shareholder: David Hoffmann, Hoffmann Media Group.

Terms of Use
                        |
                        Privacy Policy
                        |
                        Advertising Terms of Use
                        |
                            Privacy Choices
                            |
                            Cookie Preferences

Powered by BLOX Content Management System from bloxdigital.com.

Must be at least 8 characters, not contain repeating characters (e.g., 111), and not contain sequential numbers (e.g., 123).

Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password.

Must be at least 8 characters, not contain repeating characters (e.g., 111), and not contain sequential numbers (e.g., 123).

Secure transaction.
            Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.

Your gift purchase was successful!
                                        Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.