M APPINGHEALTHCAREDES ERTS
S eptem ber 2021
The G oodRx Research Team
Amanda Nguyen, Ph.D, J eroen van M eijgaard,
Ph.D, S ara K im, M S , and Tori M arsh, M PH
 
80% of the Country LacksAdequate Access to Healthcare
 
PAG E 2HEALTHCARE DES ERTS //
OVERVIEW
M ore than 80% of counties across the U .S . lack proper access to the
services needed to maintain health, according to new  research from
G oodRx. 
Access to healthcare can be defined as having an adequate supply of
services to help people maintain or improve their health. These services
span many dimensions of healthcare, including medications, primary
care providers, hospitals, emergency services, and community health
centers. Access is also affected by socioeconomic factors like
affordability, internet access, and health literacy. In an ideal w orld,
everyone w ould have equal access to necessary health services and the
means to gain access to these services. But this just isn’t the case.
The G oodRx Research team set out to identify areas that lack the proper
infrastructure to ensure a healthy community and understand just how
socioeconomic factors play a role in people’s ability to take advantage of
healthcare services.
W e did this by identifying “healthcare deserts,” or areas across the U .S .
w here people lack adequate access to six key healthcare services: (1)
pharmacies, (2) primary care providers, (3) hospitals, (4) hospital beds,
(5) trauma centers, and (6) low -cost health centers. W e then looked at
how  personal and financial barriers can make it even harder to access
care in a healthcare desert and perpetuate health disparities.
In this report, G oodRx Research dives into how  healthcare infrastructure
⼀  or lack thereof ⼀  shapes access to healthcare. 
Through our research, w e identified seven key findings:
OU R SEVEN K EY FINDING S
PAG E 3HEALTHCARE DES ERTS //
01 M ore than 80% of counties across the U .S . lack
adequate healthcare infrastructure in some shape or
form. That means that over a third of the U .S .
population lives in a county w here there is less than
adequate access to pharmacies, primary care
providers, hospitals, trauma centers, and/or low -cost
health centers.
02Over 40% of counties are pharmacy deserts, w here
most people have to drive more than 15 minutes to
reach nearby pharmacies.
03 Over 9% of counties are primary care provider deserts,
w here there aren’t enough healthcare professionals to
provide primary care for most of the local population.
PAG E 4HEALTHCARE DES ERTS //
04 Over 20% of counties are hospital deserts, w here most
people have to drive more than 30 minutes to reach the
closest hospital. On top of that, nearly 47% of counties
have few er than 2 hospital beds per 1,000 people.
05 Over 40% of counties are trauma center deserts, w here
most people have to drive over an hour to reach a
hospital equipped to handle major traumatic injuries.
06Over 45% of counties are low -cost health center
deserts, w here most people have to drive more than 20
minutes to reach a federally-funded community health
center.
07 Healthcare deserts are more likely to affect those w ho
face additional barriers to access, such as low er
income, limited internet access, and lack of insurance.
Together, these barriers can further w iden disparities in
health outcomes.
PAG E 5HEALTHCARE DES ERTS //
M ORE THAN 80% OF COU NTIES
LACK  ADEQU ATE HEALTHCARE
INFRAS TRU CTU RE
To identify places that are potential “healthcare deserts,” it’s important to first
understand w hat good access to healthcare looks like. In an ideal w orld, you’d
probably w ant to have a few  pharmacies nearby so you can fill your prescriptions
as soon as possible and for the best price. You’d also w ant to be able to get a
doctor’s appointment w hen you need it and in a reasonable amount of time, so
you’d w ant enough primary care providers servicing your area and to live
reasonably close to a hospital. And, in case of an emergency, you’d need to have
enough hospital beds in your area and to live close to a hospital equipped to
handle major traumatic injuries. Finally, if you are uninsured or need financial
assistance, you’d w ant to have a low -cost community health center accessible
nearby.
W ith this in mind, w e defined five thresholds for “healthcare deserts” along each of
these dimensions of healthcare infrastructure: pharmacies, providers, hospitals
and hospital beds, trauma centers, and low -cost clinics. W e looked at existing
health services research to define how  much is “enough” and how  close is
“reasonably close.” 
W e identified pharmacy deserts by comparing the average driving distance to
nearby pharmacies to the average time it takes to drive 10 miles in a rural area
—  about 15 minutes —  based on the U .S . Department of Agriculture (U S DA)
definition of food deserts. 
W e leveraged data on health professional shortage areas (HPS As) from the
Health Resources & S ervices Administration (HRS A) to identify provider deserts,
w here there aren’t enough primary care providers to meet local demand. 
Finally, w e identified hospital deserts, trauma center deserts, and community
health center deserts based on numerous studies show ing how  long
transportation times can negatively affect the probability of timely diagnosis,
treatment, and survival, especially in underserved populations. For more details
on how  w e identified healthcare deserts, see the methodology section.
U nfortunately, our research finds that millions of Americans lack adequate access
to healthcare along at least one of the dimensions w e studied. W e find that nearly
82% of counties have at least one “healthcare desert,” w ith nearly 60% of those
counties having more than one type of healthcare desert.
PAG E 6HEALTHCARE DES ERTS //
The number of people potentially impacted by healthcare deserts is
substantial: W e estimate roughly 121 million people currently live in a
healthcare-desert county, accounting for over 37% of the U .S. population.
Interact w ith the map: w w w .dataw rapper.de/_/0HrLo/
M any areas lack adequate healthcare access along the majority of dimensions
studied. Nearly 8.4 million people live in counties w ith at least four of the six types
of healthcare deserts. Below , w e dive into each type of healthcare desert in greater
detail and identify socioeconomic factors that can prevent someone from
accessing care.
PAG E 7HEALTHCARE DES ERTS //
OVER 40% OF COU NTIES  ARE
PHARM ACY DES ERTS , W HERE
M OS T PEOPLE HAVE TO DRIVE
M ORE THAN 15 M INU TES  TO REACH
NEARBY PHARM ACIES
Pharmacies and pharmacists play a critical role in dispensing prescription and
over-the-counter medications, providing immunizations, and counseling patients
on side effects, interactions, and medication regimens. These essential services
ensure patient safety and help patients take their medications as prescribed,
ultimately improving the overall health of the community.
But, unfortunately, though there are more than 60,000 pharmacies across the
U .S ., they are dispersed unevenly. In over 40% of U .S  counties, a majority of
people do not have adequate access to a pharmacy.
In total, we estimate that over 41 million Americans live in a pharmacy
desert.
Previous G oodRx research identified pharmacy deserts in an effort to understand
areas that may suffer from slow  COVID-19 vaccine rollout due to strained
pharmacy capacity. This research w as based on pharmacy density and pharmacy
capacity, defined as the number of local and chain pharmacies in a county per
10,000 people.
How ever, the below  map identifies pharmacy deserts by something more tangible
to consumers: driving time. It specifically calls out areas in w hich residents have to
drive more than 15 minutes to local pharmacies, a distance that could make it
difficult to fill a prescription if needed. S imilar to the U S DA’s definition of food
deserts, the farther a person lives from pharmacies, the less access they have to
in-stock medications and different options for price shopping (since prices for the
same medication often vary across pharmacies).
PAG E 8HEALTHCARE DES ERTS //
Interact w ith the map: w w w .dataw rapper.de/_/NThxK /
In general, S outh Dakota, M ontana, Nebraska, and K ansas have the largest
number of counties that lack sufficient access to a pharmacy. In much of the state,
residents have to drive more than 15 minutes to access a pharmacy. S o w hile they
may have access to a provider to obtain a prescription, filling that prescription may
be more difficult.
PAG E 9HEALTHCARE DES ERTS //
OVER 9% OF COU NTIES  ARE
PRIM ARY CARE PROVIDER
DES ERTS , W HERE THERE AREN’T
ENOU G H PROVIDERS  FOR THE
M AJ ORITY OF THE POPU LATION
One of the most important components of healthcare is having a primary care
provider w ho can perform regular checkups, screenings, immunizations, and other
preventive services. Primary care providers also serve as a starting point for
healthcare, helping patients w ith non-emergency needs, common illnesses, and
specialist referrals. In addition to preventing illness and death, better access to
primary care providers has been show n to reduce health disparities and total
healthcare costs.
To identify primary care provider deserts, w e looked at areas w here the supply of
primary care providers is too low  for the local population’s healthcare needs. U sing
data from HRS A, w e mapped regions designated as primary care health
professional shortage areas. These areas have a low  population-to-provider ratio,
a high population share w ith incomes below  100% of the federal poverty level, high
rates of infant mortality or low  birth w eight, and long travel times to the nearest
source of care outside of the area. These criteria capture regions w here the supply
of primary care is low , as w ell as regions w here the demand for primary care is
high.
In areas w ith greater healthcare needs, HRS A targets having at least 1 full-time
primary care provider for every 3,000 people. 
On average, healthcare provider deserts have 1 full-time primary care
provider for every 10,449 people —  a potential patient caseload over three
times the recommended level.
PAG E 10HEALTHCARE DES ERTS //
The larger the patient caseload per provider, the longer it takes for people to get
an appointment and the more difficult it becomes to receive timely, quality care.
M ore patients may end up relying on urgent care and the emergency room to
diagnose their health issues, often after it’s too late for preventive care and w ithout
a complete picture of their health history.
In total, roughly 13 million people live in a primary care provider desert.
In 294 counties —  over 9% of all U .S . counties —  the majority of residents live in
an area w ith a primary care provider shortage.
Interact w ith the map: w w w .dataw rapper.de/_/qIqCI/
PAG E 11HEALTHCARE DES ERTS //
M any healthcare provider shortages are concentrated in rural areas. In M ississippi,
over 58% of counties —  most of them rural —  don’t have enough primary care
providers for the majority of local residents. In response, the M ississippi S tate
Department of Health has a dedicated Primary Care Office tasked w ith increasing
the supply of primary care providers in the state. Despite these efforts, roughly
30% of M ississippi residents still live in a primary care desert, and M ississippi ranks
49th out of 50 in terms of access to clinical care.
In New  M exico, w here primary care doctors have the low est pay and highest
projected retirements, over 22% of residents live in a primary care desert. In
response to these shortages, the state’s government has invested in expanding its
medical residency programs, estimating that 10 more primary care physicians per
100,000 people w ould reduce emergency room visits by 11%, hospital inpatient
admissions by 6%, and avoidable surgeries by 7%.
PAG E 12HEALTHCARE DES ERTS //
OVER 20% OF COU NTIES  ARE
HOS PITAL DES ERTS , W HERE M OS T
PEOPLE HAVE TO DRIVE OVER 30
M INU TES  TO REACH THE CLOS ES T
HOS PITAL
Hospitals are another integral part of healthcare infrastructure. In order to maintain
proper health, people not only need access to healthcare providers but also
facilities w here they can receive treatment from those providers.
W e looked at the distribution of 7,513 hospitals across the country, including
general acute care hospitals, children’s hospitals, psychiatric hospitals, critical
access hospitals, military hospitals, and Indian Health S ervice hospitals. Follow ing
previous research documenting the impact of long travel times on treatment and
quality of care, w e set a hospital desert threshold of 30 minutes driving time to the
closest hospital.
Our analysis show s that in over 20% of counties, most people have to drive more
than 30 minutes to get to the nearest hospital of any kind. The map below  show s
how  many people in each county across the U .S . are living in a hospital desert.
Overall, roughly 29 million people lack adequate access to hospitals and
must travel over 30 minutes from their home to the nearest hospital.
PAG E 13HEALTHCARE DES ERTS //
As w ith healthcare provider deserts, many hospital deserts are located in rural
areas. Vermont, Alaska, Arkansas, Alabama, and M aine have the largest share of
the state population living in a hospital desert, many of w hich are concentrated in
rural areas. In Essex County, Vermont —  w here there is only one health center and
a lack of specialty services —  patients recount driving hours to get the care they
need.
Hospitals also tend to operate w here the local economic conditions are favorable,
so many hospital deserts are located in neighborhoods w ith low er income and
higher rates of uninsurance. Even in large cities like Houston, hospital closures can
lead to hospital deserts.
Once a patient arrives at the hospital, there’s also the question of hospital
capacity. Even if it doesn’t take long to get to the hospital, many people may still
lack access because there aren’t enough hospital beds for everyone w ho needs
one.
Interact w ith the map: w w w .dataw rapper.de/_/2uses/
The ideal number of hospital beds depends on various factors, including hospital
size and local demand. To map hospital bed deserts, w e set a simple threshold at
2 hospital beds per 1,000 people. Even though this threshold is below  W orld
Health Organization (W HO) standards, w e still find a stark number of hospital bed
deserts.
PAG E 14HEALTHCARE DES ERTS //
Nearly 47% of counties are hospital bed deserts, where over 80 million
people don’t have access to enough hospital beds.
The map below  breaks dow n w hich areas have the w orst hospital bed shortages.
Interact w ith the map: w w w .dataw rapper.de/_/T71J 1/
As the COVID-19 pandemic has demonstrated, having sufficient hospital bed
capacity can mean the difference betw een life or death. In states like S outh
Dakota, w here over 22% of the population lives in a hospital bed desert, a surge in
hospitalizations w ith limited bed capacity can force patients to be flow n out of state
for care.
PAG E 15HEALTHCARE DES ERTS //
OVER 40% OF COU NTIES  ARE
TRAU M A CENTER DES ERTS , W HERE
M OS T PEOPLE HAVE TO DRIVE
OVER AN HOU R TO REACH A
HOS PITAL EQU IPPED TO HANDLE
M AJ OR TRAU M ATIC INJ U RIES
Trauma centers, typically housed in the emergency room of a hospital, exist to
treat the most severe and life-threatening cases like gunshot w ounds, blunt
trauma, traumatic car crash injuries, and/or major burns. There are currently 2,020
Level I through Level V trauma centers scattered throughout the U .S . But, like all
healthcare services, they are distributed unevenly.
W hen accessing a trauma center, every second counts. Doctors often refer to the
“golden hour,” w hich is the concept that a patient needs to receive definitive care
w ithin an hour of injury to increase their chances of survival. How ever, residents in
40% of counties throughout the U .S . live in a trauma care desert, meaning they
have to drive more than 60 minutes to get to the nearest trauma center. 
Nearly 49 million people live over an hour away from a hospital equipped
to handle major traumatic injuries.
For these Americans, a trauma center may be too far aw ay to survive a serious
injury. W ith regards to gun shot w ounds specifically, even 5 miles can have an
impact on a patient’s chance of survival.
 
PAG E 16HEALTHCARE DES ERTS //
M ontana, North Dakota, W yoming, Nevada, and Idaho currently have the most
trauma desert counties. In these states, the majority of residents w ill not be able to
access a trauma center w ithin the “golden hour.”
In Idaho, there is currently no Level I trauma center that is equipped to provide the
most comprehensive trauma care. S o, for complicated cases, patients may even
need to be airlifted to a center in a nearby state, w hich can be expensive and life-
threatening. 
S imilarly, Nevada only has one Level I trauma center —  U niversity M edical Center
—  w hich has a survival rate of 96% for patients w ho arrive w ithin an hour. But few
live close enough to get this necessary care.
S an Bernardino County, in California, has a population of more than 2 million
residents, but not all have equal access to trauma care. Currently, there are tw o
adult trauma centers throughout the county. How ever, these centers are unevenly
distributed throughout the spraw ling county, and over half a million residents (25%
of the county’s population) still live more than 60 minutes from the closest trauma
center.
Interact w ith the map:   w w w .dataw rapper.de/_/U igAY/
OVER 45% OF COU NTIES  ARE LOW -
COS T HEALTH CENTER DES ERTS ,
W HERE M OS T PEOPLE HAVE TO
DRIVE OVER 20 M INU TES  TO REACH
A FEDERALLY FU NDED COM M U NITY
HEALTH CENTER
PAG E 17HEALTHCARE DES ERTS //
There are nearly 12,000 federally funded community health centers across the
U .S ., w hich include HRS A-funded health centers and Indian Health S ervice
facilities. But these centers, aimed at providing primary care in underserved
communities, are unevenly distributed throughout the country.
Federally funded community health centers are critical, especially in underserved
communities. In 2019, nearly 30 million people across the U .S . visited a HRS A
health center. Of that group, 91% w ere at or below  200% of the federal poverty
level, 48% w ere enrolled in M edicaid or the Children’s Health Insurance Program
(CHIP), 23% had no insurance, and 5% w ere homeless. M oreover, 31% of all
patients w ere children, and 63% w ere of a racial and/or ethnic minority group. 
But at present, residents in 45% of counties across the country lack proper
access to a federally funded community health center, and they may find it difficult
to access affordable care. 
All told, over 78 million people don’t have a low-cost health center nearby
and would need to drive over 20 minutes to reach the nearest clinic.
For many patients from vulnerable populations, w ho may not ow n a vehicle or be
able to take time off from w ork, that 20 minutes can mean skipping a checkup, a
screening, or a refill. Lack of access to affordable healthcare can then result in
relying on the emergency room to diagnose and treat issues, experiencing w orse
health outcomes, and seeing higher medical bills dow n the line.
 
PAG E 18HEALTHCARE DES ERTS //
Interact w ith the map: w w w .dataw rapper.de/_/gPdvV/
Residents in much of the central part of the U .S . live in low -cost health center
deserts. S pecifically, in Nebraska, K ansas, North Dakota, and Texas, much of the
population has to drive more than 20 minutes to access affordable primary care.
Tragically, these states may need federally funded clinics the most. 
Texas, for instance, has the highest uninsured population in the country, w ith
18.4% of residents lacking health insurance. Car ow nership in Texas is also low er
than average, w ith only 28.7 per 100 residents ow ning a registered vehicle.
W ithout a car, a 20-minute drive, or longer, may prohibit many from accessing the
care they need. 
 
HEALTHCARE DES ERTS  ARE M ORE
LIK ELY TO AFFECT THOS E W HO
FACE ADDITIONAL BARRIERS  TO
ACCES S , S U CH AS  LOW ER INCOM E,
LIM ITED INTERNET ACCES S , AND
LACK  OF INS U RANCE
PAG E 19HEALTHCARE DES ERTS //
Accessing healthcare involves many factors besides simply having the physical
infrastructure in place. People may have difficulty actually using existing healthcare
infrastructure because of personal or financial barriers. As a result, health
disparities may persist even in places that aren’t considered “healthcare deserts,”
simply because some groups still struggle to access the resources that are
available. In essence, socioeconomic factors often determine w hether you can
gain access to healthcare.
Below  w e w alk through three factors that are more common in states w ith a higher
number of healthcare deserts: (1) poor internet access, (2) low  household income,
and (3) lack of health insurance. In all of these cases, residents in states w ith more
barriers and more deserts w ill have an even harder time accessing the care they
need. 
Internet access and healthcare deserts
Let’s start w ith internet access. S tates w ith a higher rate of the population lacking
internet access according to the census tend to have more healthcare deserts. In
this analysis, North Dakota, New  M exico, and M ississippi stand out as having both
poor access to healthcare services and internet access.
 
PAG E 20HEALTHCARE DES ERTS //
In North Dakota, nearly one-quarter of the population is w ithout internet, and
counties have an average of 3.5 healthcare deserts across the state. New  M exico
has similar trends w ith 33% of the population w ithout internet and 2.3 deserts per
county on average. In contrast, more connected states tend to have better access
to healthcare services. New  J ersey, for instance, has few  counties w ith any sort of
healthcare desert, and only 14% of the population is w ithout access to the
internet. 
Interact w ith the chart: https://dataw rapper.dw cdn.net/Ot0U f/4/
Reliable internet is essential for accessing nearly every aspect of healthcare, from
researching and understanding a medical condition, to even accessing a COVID
vaccine or a specialist. Back in M arch, during the height of the COVID-19 vaccine
rollout, areas w ith a low er access to internet and modern technology found it
difficult to access a vaccine, w hich placed these areas at risk of COVID-19 for
longer than necessary. 
PAG E 21HEALTHCARE DES ERTS //
Poor healthcare infrastructure, coupled w ith a lack of internet access, can only
deepen health disparities. On top of that, a majority of the U .S . population that
lacks internet is 65 years of age or older —  an age group that typically needs more
medical services than others. 
Household income and healthcare deserts
Income is also, not surprisingly, associated w ith healthcare infrastructure.
M ontana, Idaho, and New  M exico, for instance, have low er median household
income (according to the census) as w ell as more healthcare deserts. M any
S outhern states also suffer from both low  median income and inadequate access
to healthcare.
Interact w ith the chart: https://dataw rapper.dw cdn.net/XU x6S /2/
PAG E 22HEALTHCARE DES ERTS //
Income is a notorious, and w ell-researched, determinant of healthcare access for
many reasons. W ithout a reliable and adequate stream of income, affording care
can become difficult. For example, nearly 1 in 3 families report skipping some form
of medical care due to cost. W hen people can’t afford their healthcare, they may
be forced to make decisions betw een paying for food and rent or paying for their
prescriptions. S o it’s no surprise that cost is one of the top barriers to gaining
access to healthcare.
The relationship betw een income and healthcare deserts is concerning, as low -
income patients are precisely the group that needs healthcare infrastructure such
as low -cost health centers nearby. S imilarly, having multiple pharmacies and
enough primary care providers nearby w ould help low -income patients find the
most affordable treatments and invest in preventive care. The prevalence of
healthcare deserts in low -income neighborhoods only exacerbates the issues of
healthcare affordability.
Health insurance and healthcare deserts
Insurance status is also correlated w ith access to healthcare. Texas, Idaho,
G eorgia, and Alaska, for instance, have a large number of uninsured individuals
(according to the census) on top of more healthcare deserts. In Idaho, 12% of the
population lacks insurance, and, in G eorgia, 14% of the population lacks
insurance. In both of these states, healthcare deserts are w idespread.
PAG E 23HEALTHCARE DES ERTS //
Interact w ith the chart: https://dataw rapper.dw cdn.net/DBoVC/3/
A lack of insurance is linked to a host of healthcare outcomes. In general,
uninsured individuals are more likely to skip care including doctor visits,
prescriptions, and routine labs and screenings because they have to shoulder the
cost of their care. In fact, a survey by K aiser Family Foundation found that 50% of
uninsured individuals do not have a “regular source of care” for their healthcare
needs. 
A lack of insurance, coupled w ith the lack of adequate healthcare infrastructure, is
a double w hammy that w ill certainly sw ay people aw ay from the care they need. If
someone has to drive a long distance for their healthcare and then shoulder the full
cost, they aren’t likely to get all of the healthcare they need.
Finally, as discussed earlier, higher rates of uninsurance may feed a vicious cycle
of perpetuating healthcare deserts. W hen more people struggle to pay their
medical bills w ithout insurance, resources like providers and hospitals flow  out of
the neighborhood, further exacerbating disparities in healthcare access.
S U M M ING  IT ALL U P
PAG E 24HEALTHCARE DES ERTS //
For years, research has sought to identify individual healthcare deserts on their
ow n —  from pharmacy deserts, to hospital deserts, and even food deserts. And
w hile this research is essential, it is often just a snapshot of a community’s access
to healthcare. 
Caring for one’s health is multidimensional and includes an array of healthcare
services. As w e described above, in order to stay healthy, a community w ill need
providers, hospitals, trauma centers, pharmacies, and community health centers.
On top of that, people need to be able to access these facilities. W ithout
insurance, or access to the internet for example, it w ill be difficult to gain access to
these facilities, no matter how  close they are to one’s home. 
From this perspective, few  actually have adequate access to all aspects of
healthcare services. S o, w hile someone may live close to a pharmacy, they may
have to drive over an hour to a trauma center if they get in a serious accident. Or if
their doctor is just dow n the street, filling a prescription from said doctor may be a
longer drive. Lacking just one dimension of healthcare can be detrimental to the
health of the w hole community.
On the flip side, investing in healthcare infrastructure and providing the means to
access said infrastructure can have a multiplier effect on eliminating healthcare
deserts and improving health outcomes. For example, helping the uninsured get
insured and afford healthcare can attract investment in hospitals, w hich can then
attract more healthcare providers. Likew ise, increasing access to low -cost health
centers reduces the financial burden of healthcare and encourages preventive
care, building a healthier community and alleviating the demand for hospital beds
and healthcare providers. There are many dimensions to healthcare access, and
thus many opportunities to improve.
PAG E 25HEALTHCARE DES ERTS //
M ETHODOLOG Y
Data sources
Data on 60,249 community retail pharmacies w ere sourced from DataQ and the
G oodRx database. 
Data on primary care providers w ere sourced from Health Resources & S ervices
Administration (HRS A) primary care health professional shortage areas (HPS As). 
Data on 7,513 hospitals and 2,020 trauma centers w ere sourced from Homeland
Infrastructure Foundation-Level Data (HIFLD) and the Indian Health S ervice (IHS ). 
Data on 11,643 federally funded community health centers w ere sourced from
HRS A and IHS . Demographic data on county population, internet access,
household income, and insurance coverage w ere sourced from the 2019 American
Community S urvey 5-year data.
Calculating driving time
W e calculated driving time to the nearest pharmacy, hospital, trauma center, and
community health center based on the straight-line distance from each census
tract population centroid. W e applied a detour index of 1.417 to each driving
distance. Driving time w as estimated using average driving speed in urban,
suburban, and rural areas. For driving time to trauma centers, w e used ambulance
driving speed. 
W e note that five counties —  Oglala Lakota, S outh Dakota; S hannon, S outh
Dakota; W ade Hampton, Alaska; K usilvak Census Area, Alaska; and Bedford,
Virginia —  w ere excluded from geographical deserts calculation due to missing
data. The Federal Information Processing S tandards (FIPS ) codes for these
counties w ere assigned after 2010 and did not have census tract population
centroid information.
PAG E 26HEALTHCARE DES ERTS //
Defining healthcare desert thresholds
Pharmacy, hospital, and trauma center deserts are geographical deserts based on
driving time thresholds from each census tract population centroid. At the county
level, a county is considered a healthcare desert if more than 50% of the county’s
population lives in healthcare desert census tracts.
For pharmacy deserts, a census tract is considered a desert if the average driving
time to the three closest pharmacies exceeds 15 minutes. W e use the average
distance to the three closest pharmacies in order to account for pharmacies’
inventory, insurance preferred netw orks, and patients’ ability to price shop. The
threshold of 15 minutes w as based on the concept of “food deserts,” defined by
the U .S . Department of Agriculture (U S DA) as at least 500 people and/or 33% of a
tract population residing more than 1 mile from a supermarket or large grocery in
urban areas and more than 10 miles in rural areas. W e derived 15 minutes by
applying the average driving speed in rural areas to 10 miles.
For hospital, low -cost health center, and trauma center deserts, a census tract is
considered a desert if the driving time exceeds 30, 20, or 60 minutes to the
nearest hospital, health center, and trauma center, respectively. Based on previous
studies, driving time exceeding 30 minutes to a hospital is considered a travel
burden that can negatively affect timely diagnosis and quality of treatment (see
Probst et al. (2007), Bosanac et al. (1976), and Ambroggi et al. (2015)). The driving
threshold to community health centers w as reduced in order to account for
increased use by underserved minorities and vulnerable populations, w hich have
been show n to be more impacted by travel burden (see M artinez et al. (2003),
Fitzpatrick et al. (2004), and S yed et al. (2014)). For trauma centers, w e set a
driving threshold at 60 minutes, as travel times over 1 hour have been associated
w ith increased patient mortality among severely injured patients (see S ampalis et
al. (1993)).
For primary care provider deserts, w e define a county as a desert if more than
50% of the population lives in primary care geographic HPS As. 
These areas are scored based on having a low  population-to-provider ratio, high
population share w ith income below  100% of the federal poverty level, high rates
of infant mortality or low  birthw eight, and long travel times to the nearest source of
care outside of the area.
For hospital bed deserts, w e define a county as a desert if there are few er than 2
beds per 1,000 population. According to 2020 data, the median number of
hospital beds per 1,000 population among Organisation for Economic Co-
operation and Development (OECD) countries is 3.5. As the U .S . ranks in the
bottom quartile w ith 2.8 beds per 1,000 people, w e chose a conservative desert
threshold of few er than 2 beds per 1,000 population. W e note that this hospital
bed threshold is also below  W orld Health Organization (W HO) recommendations.
W e include hospital beds from all U .S . hospitals, including general acute care,
long-term care, critical access, and psychiatric hospitals.
To count the total number of deserts per county, w e sum the number of healthcare
desert categories w here the majority of the county’s residents live in a desert.
PAG E 27HEALTHCARE DES ERTS //
Healthcare deserts and
sociodemographic barriers to access
W e compare socioeconomic data from the 2019 American Community S urvey 5-
year data to the simple average number of healthcare deserts by state.
S ocioeconomic data is rolled up from the census tract-level by taking a population-
w eighted average at the county level and a simple average at the state level. The
slope of the fitted line is estimated using ordinary least squares regression. All
slopes show n are statistically significant at the 1% level.