Washington D.C. Office (202) 225-7761

WASHINGTON, DC — Congresswoman Kim Schrier, M.D. (WA-08) introduced the Newborn Screening Saves Lives Reauthorization Act – a bipartisan bill that is an essential step in our nation’s fight to eliminate preventable childhood deaths and severe disabilities through the increased use of comprehensive and standardized newborn screening tests. The bill reauthorizes assistance to states so they can improve and expand their newborn screening programs.

“As a pediatrician, I’ve taken care of patients whose conditions were discovered on their newborn screen. And because we caught the diseases early, they are doing great!” said Congresswoman Kim Schrier. “I am proud to introduce this legislation with a bipartisan group of my colleagues that will provide the essential tools to screen babies for rare but treatable conditions, and save lives.”

“As an OB-GYN, I’ve seen firsthand how newborn screening catches health conditions early and saves lives,” said Congresswoman Morrison.” Newborn screening reduces health care costs for families, increases knowledge about treatable diseases, and makes our kids healthier and safer. I’m proud to partner with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to reauthorize this life-saving program.”

“For years, the Newborn Screening Saves Lives Act has provided parents with additional resources, enabling early identification and treatment for their babies. Reauthorizing this bipartisan legislation will continue to save lives, support families, and reduce long-term healthcare costs. As a former dentist, I know firsthand the value of early diagnosis and treatment, which is why I've been proud to champion efforts to reauthorize this program. This legislation has proven to be successful in enhancing these screening programs nationwide, and I am grateful for the leadership on both sides of the aisle working to address this important issue,” said Congressman Simpson.

“I’m proud to co-lead the Newborn Screening Saves Lives Reauthorization Act because every baby deserves a healthy start and every parent deserves the peace of mind that comes from early detection of life-threatening conditions,” said Congressman Langworthy. “Last year, I successfully advocated for Krabbe Disease to be added to the federal newborn screening recommendations - an important step in catching rare, life-threatening conditions before it's too late. As medical science advances, we must ensure our screening programs keep pace to protect the most vulnerable among us. This reauthorization will undoubtedly save lives and spare countless families from unthinkable heartbreak.”

The bill builds on Congresswoman Schrier’s resume of fighting for affordable and accessible healthcare for children of all ages, including newborns. Earlier this year, Congresswoman Schrier led a bipartisan effort to ensure our nation’s newborn screening programs are fully funded and supported. The bill is co-led by U.S. Representatives Mike Simpson (ID-02), Kelly Morrison (MN-03), and Nick Langworthy (NY-23).

MORE INFORMATION ON LEGISLATION:

Before the original Newborn Screening Saves Lives Act was enacted in 2008, only ten states and the District of Columbia required infants to be screened for a complete panel of recommended disorders, and there was no federal repository of information on the diseases. Today, all 50 states and the District of Columbia screen for at least 30 of the 35 currently-recommended core conditions. As a result, over 12,000 babies with one of these treatable, rare conditions are now identified each year. Unfortunately, critical gaps and challenges still remain. Discrepancies in the number of tests given from state to state cause children to tragically die or become permanently disabled from otherwise treatable disorders.

The Newborn Screening Saves Lives Reauthorization Act will help to avoid these preventable tragedies by providing states with the resources they need to improve their newborn screening programs and to uniformly test for all recommended disorders.