SOURCE: https://www.firerescue1.com/cancer/national-firefighter-registry-for-cancer-goes-offline-following-niosh-layoffs
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-21


National Firefighter Registry for Cancer goes offline following NIOSH layoffs
         facebook
         twitter
         instagram
         linkedin
         youtube
         tiktok
NEWSLETTERS
MY ACCOUNT
Menu
Trending Topics
🎧 NEW |
                    What firefighters really want from training
Close
Firefighter Cancer
National Firefighter Registry for Cancer goes offline following NIOSH layoffs
Access to the NFR has been disrupted following federal layoffs, prompting questions about the future of the firefighter cancer-focused research program
April 02, 2025 10:01 AM • 
Bill Carey
WASHINGTON — The 
National Firefighter Registry for Cancer
 (NFR) has been shut down following a reduction in force (RIF) notice to NIOSH employees that serve the program.
An email to FireRescue1 indicated the 
registration section
 of the website had been taken offline, and users trying to access it on April 1 were met with a “Service Unavailable” message. The disruption follows 
layoffs affecting NIOSH programs 
under a broader restructuring of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), which has impacted staffing for several occupational safety efforts, including those focused on firefighter health. NIOSH confirmed to FireRescue1 that the program was shut down “indefinitely,” as there is no support staff left to manage the program and website at this time.
The NFR was launched to collect health and work data from firefighters nationwide. The goal of the registry is to better understand the link between firefighting and cancer, with the ultimate aim of reducing long-term health risks for those in the profession. The registry was open to all U.S. firefighters — career, volunteer, wildland, active or retired. Participants would complete a confidential survey about their service history, with data being linked to state cancer registries to spot trends and risks.
Approximately 23,000 firefighters had registered with the NFR as of March. In addition to firefighters not being able register for the NFR right now, firefighters who already registered cannot update their information or track their exposures.
What is the National Firefighter Registry?
The National Firefighter Registry (NFR)
 is a nationwide initiative led by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), part of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). Its goal is to better understand and reduce cancer risk among U.S. firefighters.
Why was it created?
Firefighters are exposed to smoke, hazardous chemicals and other toxic substances in the line of duty. Over time, these exposures may increase their risk for developing cancer. However, research has been limited due to a lack of comprehensive data. The NFR was created in 2018 to:
Collect health and work information from firefighters.
Study the link between firefighting and cancer.
Help develop strategies to better protect firefighters’ health.
Why should firefighters join?
By joining the NFR, firefighters are:
Helping protect future generations of firefighters.
Contributing to critical research on occupational cancer risks.
Supporting the development of better safety standards and health protections.
The shutdown of the NFR website will cause concern among firefighters, fire service leaders and advocates, and public health experts who emphasize the urgent need for continued research into cancer risks within the fire service.
Trending
Line-of-Duty Death (LODD)
2 killed in helicopter crash while battling wildfire in Yosemite
        Two Precision crewmembers were killed when their helicopter crashed during a bucket drop while assigned to the Dome Fire in Yosemite National Park
September 21, 2026 12:48 PM
 · 
Bill Carey
Fire Service Culture
Calif. firefighters carry lost town landmark on new badges
        Templeton firefighters unveiled new badges featuring the historic Feed & Grain building, preserving a community landmark destroyed by fire
September 20, 2026 12:00 PM
September 11, 2001
Coast Guard names new cutter for FDNY firefighter killed on 9/11
        The Coast Guard commissioned a Fast Response Cutter honoring Jeffrey Palazzo, a Coast Guard reservist and FDNY Rescue 5 firefighter killed at the World Trade Center
September 20, 2026 08:00 AM
Fatal Incident
3 family members killed after SUV strikes N.C. fire truck blocking crash
        Three members of a Charlotte family, including a 6-year-old girl, were killed when their SUV struck a Providence Fire Department fire engine at an earlier crash scene
September 21, 2026 08:16 AM
Firefighter Cancer
Health & Wellness
NIOSH
Bill Carey
                Bill Carey is the associate editor for FireRescue1.com and EMS1.com. A former Maryland volunteer firefighter, sergeant, and lieutenant, Bill has written for several fire service publications and platforms. His work on firefighter behavioral health garnered a 2014 Neal Award nomination. His ongoing research and writings about line-of-duty death data is frequently cited in articles, presentations, and trainings. Have a news tip? He can be reached at 
news@lexipol.com
.
BETTER EVERY SHIFT 🎙️
What firefighters really want from training
What ‘Never Forget’ means 25 years later
Don’t wait for tragedy to build resilience
How to build a leadership think tank
MOST POPULAR
What ‘Never Forget’ means 25 years later
President Trump honors first responders at Steel Across America event on Ellipse
Training is called a priority — so why does it still feel compliance-driven?
85-foot crane collapses in Miami, ignites vehicle fire and injures 4
Webinar: Prepare to apply: SAM.gov
