SOURCE: https://www.firerescue1.com/niosh/national-firefighter-registry-for-cancer-back-online-following-changes-to-niosh-programs
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-21


National Firefighter Registry for Cancer back online following earlier NIOSH program cuts
         facebook
         twitter
         instagram
         linkedin
         youtube
         tiktok
NEWSLETTERS
MY ACCOUNT
Menu
Trending Topics
🎧 NEW |
                    What firefighters really want from training
Close
NIOSH
National Firefighter Registry for Cancer back online following earlier NIOSH program cuts
Firefighters are now able to enroll and contribute to the ongoing cancer studies
May 15, 2025 02:47 PM • 
Bill Carey
WASHINGTON — The 
National Firefighter Registry for Cancer
 (NFR) has been restored following an 
April 1 reduction-in-force (RIF)
 that affected National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) staff supporting the program.
In March, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) 
announced
 a “dramatic restructuring in accordance with President Trump’s Executive Order, ‘Implementing the President’s Department of Government Efficiency Workforce Optimization Initiative.’” Specifically, the HHS announcement indicated that the department’s 28 divisions will be consolidated into 15 new divisions, including a new Administration for a Healthy America (AHA). The AHA would include NIOSH, previously housed within the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
Days later, on April 1, hundreds of NIOSH employees, including many who work on firefighter health and safety programs like the NFR, were notified that they 
had been laid off 
or would be laid off in June. Almost immediately after the news of the NIOSH layoffs, 
the NFR site went offline
.
What is the National Firefighter Registry?
The National Firefighter Registry (NFR)
 is a nationwide initiative led by NIOSH. Its goal is to better understand and reduce cancer risk among U.S. firefighters. As of March, around 23,000 firefighters had enrolled. Participants complete a secure survey about their service history, which is linked with state cancer registries to track trends and improve prevention strategies.
Why was it created?
Firefighters are exposed to smoke, hazardous chemicals and other toxic substances in the line of duty. Over time, these exposures may increase their risk for developing cancer. However, research has been limited due to a lack of comprehensive data. The NFR was created in 2018 to:
Collect health and work information from firefighters.
Study the link between firefighting and cancer.
Help develop strategies to better protect firefighters’ health.
Why should firefighters join?
By joining the NFR, firefighters are:
Helping protect future generations of firefighters.
Contributing to critical research on occupational cancer risks.
Supporting the development of better safety standards and health protections.
Firefighter Cancer
The National Firefighter Registry is back: Help fellow firefighters ‘be healthier and live longer’
        Dr. Kenny Fent, NFR team lead, details this massive project to better understand occupational cancer among firefighters
May 22, 2025 11:21 AM
Read more about NIOSH program cuts
NIOSH
NIOSH researchers return to work, temporarily
April 30, 2025 01:01 PM
NIOSH
NIOSH firefighter programs to be temporarily restored following ‘misinterpreted executive order’
April 29, 2025 01:57 PM
 · 
FireRescue1 Staff
NIOSH
NIOSH layoffs hit 9/11 health program despite earlier reversal
April 02, 2025 04:20 PM
Firefighter Cancer
The National Firefighter Registry: Is it waste, fraud or abuse? I’m listening.
April 03, 2025 12:50 PM
 · 
Fire Chief Marc Bashoor, FOIV
NIOSH
Sounding the 5th alarm: We must save firefighter health research
April 04, 2025 08:03 PM
 · 
Sara Jahnke, Ph.D.
Personal Protective Equipment (PPE)
HHS cuts eliminate NIOSH respirator certification staff
April 02, 2025 09:47 PM
Firefighter Cancer
National Firefighter Registry for Cancer goes offline following NIOSH layoffs
April 02, 2025 10:01 AM
 · 
Bill Carey
NIOSH
Layoffs hit NIOSH safety, firefighter programs under HHS restructuring
April 01, 2025 12:19 PM
 · 
Bill Carey
Firefighter Cancer
NIOSH
Bill Carey
                Bill Carey is the associate editor for FireRescue1.com and EMS1.com. A former Maryland volunteer firefighter, sergeant, and lieutenant, Bill has written for several fire service publications and platforms. His work on firefighter behavioral health garnered a 2014 Neal Award nomination. His ongoing research and writings about line-of-duty death data is frequently cited in articles, presentations, and trainings. Have a news tip? He can be reached at 
news@lexipol.com
.
BETTER EVERY SHIFT 🎙️
What firefighters really want from training
What ‘Never Forget’ means 25 years later
Don’t wait for tragedy to build resilience
How to build a leadership think tank
MOST POPULAR
What ‘Never Forget’ means 25 years later
President Trump honors first responders at Steel Across America event on Ellipse
Training is called a priority — so why does it still feel compliance-driven?
85-foot crane collapses in Miami, ignites vehicle fire and injures 4
Webinar: Prepare to apply: SAM.gov
