 DSA on SAVE America - Democratic Socialists of America (DSA) Democratic Socialists of America Join Us Subscribe Donate Join Us Subscribe × Donate About Us What is Democratic Socialism? Leadership and Structure DSA Constitution & Bylaws History Code of Conduct and Harassment Contact Us Careers Our Work Green New Deal Growth & Development Committee Housing Justice Commission International Committee National Electoral Commission National Labor Commission National Political Education Committee Trans Rights and Bodily Autonomy Working Groups YDSA Get Involved Chapters Chapter List Chapter Map Resources Chapter List Start a Chapter DSA Political Platform Resources FAQ News News Statements Democratic Left Socialist Forum Calendar Store 2026 Democratic Socialists Summit Socialists Summit: General Information Socialists Summit Timeline About Us What is Democratic Socialism? Leadership and Structure DSA Constitution & Bylaws History Code of Conduct and Harassment Contact Us Careers Our Work Green New Deal Growth & Development Committee Housing Justice Commission International Committee National Electoral Commission National Labor Commission National Political Education Committee Trans Rights and Bodily Autonomy Working Groups YDSA Get Involved Chapters Chapter List Chapter Map Resources Chapter List Start a Chapter DSA Political Platform Resources FAQ News News Statements Democratic Left Socialist Forum Calendar Store 2026 Democratic Socialists Summit Socialists Summit: General Information Socialists Summit Timeline Statements Share This Tweet Share on Facebook Email DSA on SAVE America February 19, 2026 On February 13, 2026, the United States House of Representatives passed the “SAVE America Act,” a sweeping voter-suppression bill that will force Americans to show proof of citizenship at the ballot box. Democratic Socialists of America roundly condemns this threat to political participation and civic life, and urges the Senate to reject this bill. The United States of America has never been a democracy. From its founding, Black and Brown workers have been marginalized by a political system that sees its residents—citizens and noncitizens alike—as subjects, rather than full political participants. The framers of the Constitution refused to protect the right to universal and equal suffrage because they knew it would overthrow Slave Power. The Electoral College, an undemocratic Senate, the three-fifths clause of the Constitution, property qualifications, and poll taxes have all served at different times to protect the interests of the wealthy. Now, the House has reached into the same bag of tricks in an attempt to remove millions from the voter rolls and entrench the power of the Republican Party. This bill is part of an escalating campaign to reverse the gains of the Civil Rights Movement and marginalize working-class Americans who do not have access to documentary proof of citizenship. Over 20 million eligible voters are estimated not to have documents that meet the requirements of the “SAVE America Act,” with a disproportionate amount of them being low-income people of color. If this bill passes, millions of voters will not know about it until they are turned away at the polling place—just as its drafters intended. DSA continues to fight against both voter suppression and against our undemocratic society as a whole. Our candidates for office stand firm against racist voter ID laws and secret poll taxes like the “SAVE America Act.” Right now, our socialists in office are working to build a society that works for everyone. In our chapters, we continue to educate working-class voters about the needless complications in our electoral system, from party registration dates to laws like these. If this bill becomes law, DSA will continue the fight within our communities to ensure that everyone has a chance to be a full participant in civic life. As ever, we will continue the fight to challenge the undemocratic institutions that govern our society, both in our workplaces and at the ballot box. If you want to join the fight for democracy, join DSA today. Priorities National Labor Commission National Electoral Committee Green New Deal Campaign Commission Housing Justice Commission International Committee Trans Rights and Bodily Autonomy Publications Democratic Left Socialist Forum Resources DSA Store DSA Fund 501(c)3 Religious Socialism Young Democratic Socialists of America The Democratic Socialists of America is the largest socialist organization in the United States, with over 95,000 members. We believe that working people should run both the economy and society democratically to meet human needs, not to make profits for a few. Join Us Donate 🌹 DSA --> Join Us --> --> Privacy Policy Contact 