 DSA Political Platform - Democratic Socialists of America (DSA) Democratic Socialists of America Join Us Donate Join Us Donate × About Us What is Democratic Socialism? Leadership and Structure DSA Constitution & Bylaws History Code of Conduct and Harassment Contact Us Careers Our Work National Labor Commission National Electoral Committee Green New Deal Working Groups YDSA Get Involved Chapters Resources Chapter List Start a Chapter DSA Political Platform Resources and Tools Code of Conduct and Harassment FAQ News News Statements Democratic Left Blog Democratic Left Print Socialist Forum Calendar Store About Us What is Democratic Socialism? Leadership and Structure DSA Constitution & Bylaws History Code of Conduct and Harassment Contact Us Careers Our Work National Labor Commission National Electoral Committee Green New Deal Working Groups YDSA Get Involved Chapters Resources Chapter List Start a Chapter DSA Political Platform Resources and Tools Code of Conduct and Harassment FAQ News News Statements Democratic Left Blog Democratic Left Print Socialist Forum Calendar Store DSA Political Platform Jump To... Deepening and Strengthening Democracy Abolition of the Carceral State Abolition of White Supremacy A Powerful Labor Movement Economic Justice Gender and Sexuality Justice Green New Deal Health Justice Housing for All International Solidarity, Anti-Imperialism, and Anti-Militarism Back to top Preamble The Democratic Socialists of America are ﬁghting to win a world organized and governed by and for the vast majority, the working class. We are socialist because we share a vision of a humane social order based on popular control of resources and production, economic planning, equitable distribution, feminism, racial equality and non-oppressive relationships. We are democratic because we know that this transformation cannot be won from the top down, by a small group of elites who claim to have all the answers, or by even well-meaning politicians. This transformation can only come from the bottom up, when millions of working-class people stand together. DSA organizes to realize our working-class collective power, which stems from the reliance of the capitalist economy on our labor. Democracy is necessary to win a socialist society. Socialism is the complete realization of democracy. Our ﬁght to end capitalist exploitation is inextricably tied to our ﬁght to end oppression. A democratic socialist society must end all systemic domination, whether it’s based on race, religion, ethnic origin, sexual orientation, disability, or gender. The historical development of U.S. capitalism was heavily reliant on the theft of people’s lives and land, through the enslavement of Black people and genocide of Indigenous people. Our legal, economic, and social institutions continue to perpetuate racialized oppression. We will never be able to unify a multi-racial working class without confronting structural racism. Likewise, a democratic socialist society must end the economic subjugation of women in the workplace, violence and harassement affecting women and non-binary people, and the entire system of unpaid, gendered work. We strive for the emancipation of all people by forging the multiracial working class into an organized, ﬁghting force o n the terms of its most oppressed members. In overcoming the old, barbaric order of capitalism, the working class will not only liberate itself from its own shackles, but all of humanity from the parasitic death-drive of capitalism. As capitalism’s climate crisis ravages the whole Earth, the well-being of the working class is ultimately aligned with the survival of the whole planet. In 2021, the U.S. socialist movement is on the rise for the ﬁrst time in most of our members’ lifetimes. Millions of people have been inspired to seek out alternatives to the existing political regime, owing to Bernie Sanders’ two democratic socialist presidential campaigns, working-class electoral victories at all levels of government, massive popular protests and organizing for racial justice, an inﬂuential upsurge in militant labor activity, and strategic campaigns to build popular support for key issues, such as healthcare and climate change. In the four years of the Trump administration, DSA membership exploded and is currently approaching our goal of 100,000 members. But this growth of the socialist movement is not nearly enough to overcome the devastating impact of four decades of neoliberal capitalism, let alone bring about a transition to socialism. Neoliberalism is the political project of lowering taxes for the rich and corporations, eviscerating democratic decision-making both in the workplace and at the ballot box, slashing spending on essential social services such as education and social security, deregulating industries across the economy, and opening up ﬂows of capital across national borders. The success of neoliberalism has enforced a culture of hyper-individualism and alienation from the kinds of collective, democratic organizations necessary to challenge the power of the capitalist class. This challenge highlights the insuﬃciency of “progressivism” as well as the critical task of DSA. Transformational change in society does not come from moral righteousness or a checklist of policy positions, but from growing and wielding power. It is therefore imperative that we organize the largest possible number of people to join DSA and work together with broader coalitions united around common goals. It is to these ends that we are setting out the platform that follows. We have a world to win. Our Platform Deepening and Strengthening Democracy Abolition of the Carceral State Abolition of White Supremacy A Powerful Labor Movement Economic Justice Gender and Sexuality Justice Green New Deal Health Justice Housing for All International Solidarity and Immigration Justice Deepening and Strengthening Democracy The American political system was not made to serve the working class. Undemocratic institutions like the Senate and the Electoral College combine with the force of money in politics to make it impossible for the will of the majority to be expressed. The minoritarian right wing Republican Party uses Jim Crow-style racist restrictions on voting to desperately cling to power through reactionary white populism and their political domination of the South and the rural high plains, while mainstream Democrats are hopelessly compromised by their donor class of capitalists. The little democracy we have is currently under siege by the Republican assault on voting rights in the states and the apparent willingness of Republican oﬃcials to wholesale overturn results of elections. True change — abolishing the Senate and Electoral College, overturning the Supreme Court cases that hold that money is speech — would require constitutional amendment, made nearly impossible by our ossiﬁed Constitution. The nation that holds itself out as the world’s premier democracy is no democracy at all. We have no choice but to ﬁght. We ﬁght for a political system that empowers the working class majority to govern society in our best interests. We ﬁght for a society where every person has the power to take part in collective self-governance, whether at the ballot box or in the workplace. We ﬁght for democracy because it is a necessary condition to winning a world that works for the vast majority instead of a small group of capitalists. We ﬁght for democracy because we all deserve a say in the decisions that affect our lives. The ﬁght for socialism is the ﬁght for true democracy — on the job and in all aspects of society. Our demands: A new political order through a second constitutional convention to write the founding documents of a new socialist democracy Get money out of politics and institute an effective and robust system of public ﬁnancing for electoral campaigns at the local, state, and federal level Amend the Constitution to overturn the Supreme Court’s rulings that campaign spending limits violate the First Amendment ( Buckley v. Valeo ) and that corporations are entitled to spend unlimited funds on independent expenditures ( Citizens United ) End minority rule Abolish the Senate and the Electoral College Ban prison gerrymandering, where prisoners are counted as residents of where they are incarcerated, boosting the political power of the rural communities where they are located at the expense of the urban communities they come from Abolish the ﬁlibuster Pass the National Popular Vote Interstate Compact in enough states to trigger its provisions and approval by Congress, which would short-circuit the Electoral College in favor of electing the president via popular vote Limiting the power of the undemocratic judiciary Supreme Court term limits and additional seats to break the countermajoritarian conservative majority Additional seats in the lower courts to ensure the federal judiciary reﬂects the political composition of the country Transition to a Parliamentary system End of single-member districts with ﬁrst-past-the-post winners in state and federal legislative elections Democratic self-governance for all DC statehood Binding referenda in all overseas colonies of the United States on independence or statehood End all disenfranchisement based on criminal conviction Extension of voting rights to non-citizens who otherwise meet durational residency requirements for voting Guarantee the right to vote Passage of HR 1, the For the People Act, providing for nationwide online, election day, and automatic voter registration; providing for nationwide early voting; making Election Day a federal holiday; ending felony disenfranchisement upon a voter’s release from prison; public ﬁnancing for Congressional campaigns with a 6:1 match; requiring independent nonpartisan redistricting commissions for Congressional districts; and reforming the broken FEC Passage of the John Lewis Voting Rights Act, reenacting and strengthening the Voting Rights Act No-fault vote by mail in every state Protection of voting rights for disabled and ill individuals who cannot leave their homes or care facilities, including universal use of accessible polling sites and voting machines, and secure ballot solutions for those who cannot mark, verify, and cast paper ballots privately and independently under the current system Abolition of the Carceral State The power to create a truly democratic society is found in the organization and self-activity of the working class. The tools of our opposition, enforcing our exploitation and oppression under capitalism, are the repressive forces of the state. A vast, brutal machinery of police and prisons, security and surveillance agencies, immigration and border enforcement, courts and prosecutors all assembled to disorganize working class communities through the routine application of violence, intimidation, and coercion. Incarceration, detention and policing are active instruments of class war which guarantee the domination of the working class and reproduce racial inequalities. The origins of policing and prisons and their present-day effects demonstrate that they are are white supremacist institutions. Yet these same institutions, in their prosecution of disproportionate violence on Black, Indigenous and other people of color, have consequences for the whole of the working class — they widen divisions between people, legitimize the expansion of police power, and accelerate institutional incentives to violate and imprison millions of people. For all of the working class to achieve collective liberation we must constrain, diminish, and abolish the carceral forces of the state — from prisons and police themselves, to their manifestations in all forms throughout society. Each step forward in reducing the size, power, and authority of the repressive forces of the state expands the space for mass, organized, and collective action of the working class, and clears ground for us to build the institutions of a society to serve our communities with real justice and equality. DSA nationally endorses the 8 to Abolition demands, which are a basis for our own. We are committed to the horizon of abolition and the path leading us there. Our demands: Defund the police by rejecting any expansion to police budgets or scope of enforcement while cutting budgets annually towards zero Fire oﬃcers with excessive force complaints and freeze new hires Eliminate funding for police public relations campaigns Suspend paid leave for cops under investigation End investment in police training or facility renovations Remove police from all hospitals and care facilities and prohibit law enforcement access to private patient information Repeal the Law Enforcement Oﬃcers’ Bill of Rights, which protects police from discipline, nationwide End qualiﬁed immunity End all police contracts with social services, care services, and government agencies providing care Decertify police unions and associations Make police union contract negotiations public Expel police unions from labor federations Withhold pensions and disallow rehiring of cops ﬁred for misconduct End the criminalization of working-class survival End all misdemeanor offenses, accounting for 80% of total court dockets, reduce jail churn by reducing arrests, and cut funding to prosecutor’s oﬃces End all ﬁnes and fees associated with the criminal legal process, including ticketing, cash bail, court costs, and parole and probation fees Abolish all asset forfeiture programs and laws End mandatory arrest and failure to protect laws that lead to the criminalization of survivors of gendered violence; grant clemency to criminalized survivors Freedom for all incarcerated people Free all people from involuntary conﬁnement Stop all funding of prison expansion, stop funding of new buildings, and close local jails End pre-trial detention, civil commitment, and imprisonment for parole violations Remove and repeal all restrictions on the organization, demonstration, and labor action of incarcerated people Make all communication to and from prisoners free Reject “alternatives to incarceration” that are carceral in nature, including problem-solving courts and electronic monitoring and coercive restorative justice programs Demilitarize the police and end colonial policing of our cities and neighborhoods Cease police occupation of Black and brown communities, ceasing and defunding all iterations of “quality of life” policing programs Disarm law enforcement oﬃcers, including the police and private security Decarcerate our schools by repealing truancy laws, ending all zero tolerance disciplinary policies, suspensions and expulsions, surveillance of students, and removing police — both public and private — from all schools, colleges, and universities Decarcerate our hospitals and care facilities, removing police and prohibiting law enforcement access to private patient information prohibit law enforcement access to private patient information End police surveillance and cease all funding for contracting, procurement, and in-house development of technologies including CCTV, biometric capture and databases, predictive policing platforms, AI, and risk proﬁling algorithms End all data and resource sharing with ICE, end immigration detention, end family separation, and let our undocumented community members come home Cease all police militarization programs and end federal grants that entangle municipal police entities with the Department of Homeland Security, the Joint Terrorism Task Force, and the FBI Prohibit training exchanges between U.S. law enforcement and global military and policing entities Freedom of working-class self-organization and democratic political action Repeal all legal prohibitions on concerted, organized labor action in the U.S. by workers in any industry, public or private Remove and repeal all restrictions and enforceable statutes that restrict the political assembly, democratic organization, and free movement in our workplaces, on our streets, on public land and property, and in the whole of the commons Repeal local ordinances that criminalize people involved in the sex trades, drug trades, and street economies; that criminalize homelessness; and that criminalize squatting and other productive occupation of unused housing Remove and repeal all restrictions on the organization and recognition of military unions, allowing service members to form democratic worker organizations Invest in community self-governance and care, not cops Institute neighborhood councils as representative bodies within municipal decision making, multilingual resources for immigrant and asylum-seeking communities, and community-based public safety approaches Ensure investment in community-based food banks and other community-based food distribution Allocate funding for free at the point-of-service social care infrastructure, wellness resources, neighborhood based trauma centers, non-coercive drug and alcohol treatment programming, peer support networks, and training for healthcare professionals Invest in teachers and counselors, universal childcare, and support for all family structures—resources that move beyond punitive models of care and discipline Invest in youth programs that promote learning, safety, and community care Abolition of White Supremacy We ﬁght to abolish white supremacy and racial oppression because its destruction is in the interest of all workers, including white workers. Whiteness is a modern sociological construction, and its development and integration into the racial ideology of the United States is linked to the development of capitalism in the original European colonies. The ﬁctions of whiteness and the ideology of race amount to a barbed offering. The apparent beneﬁts of buying into white supremacy ultimately destroy the opportunity to build solidarity across differences. We cannot meaningfully combat capitalism without combating white supremacy and vice versa. At the 2019 national convention, DSA formally endorsed the “Red Deal” proposed by the Red Nation. We organize for the formal acknowledgment of Native sovereignty, and the reinstatement of treaty rights for indigenous people. The development of capitalism in the U.S. relied heavily on forced displacement of indigenous people, and therefore our political project must oppose settler colonialism. Ending white supremacy will require redistribution, institutional transformation, and expansion of legal rights. In the short term, we ﬁght for policies such as reparations for Black and indigenous communities; in the long term, for the abolition of police and prisons, self-determination for all oppressed people, and to transform and expand constitutional rights and economic arrangements for a multi-racial, economic democracy. We won many of these constitutional and statutory rights along with a promise of full economic and social liberation during the post-Civil War Reconstruction period. Today, we ﬁght to implement the full promise of that moment. Our demands: Pass reparations legislation like the “Commission to Study and Develop Reparation Proposals for African-Americans Act.” Coming out of the commission, we would want budget lines for reparations at municipal, state, and federal levels. End workplace discrimination and impose harsher ﬁnes for workplace discrimination cases. This should include efforts to reduce wage gaps between different workers; end E-Verify and allow for legal employment to all persons regardless of immigration status; and employ a larger task force with a purview based on their municipality to address issues of structural inequality. Remove barriers to enforcement of civil and constitutional rights such as those involving racial or other class-based discrimination, including qualiﬁed immunity and limitations on ﬁling and proving individual and class action civil and criminal lawsuits Increase funding to minority-serving institutions (MSIs) such as historically Black colleges and universities (HBCU), tribal colleges and universities (TCU), Hispanic serving institutions (HSI), and Asian American and Native American Paciﬁc Islander Serving Institutions (AANAPISI). Decarceration and eventual abolition of the carceral state, which disproportionately targets and impacts Black, Latino, Indigenous, and other people of color. Enact “Ban the Box” nationwide, making it illegal to ask about past criminal history on a job application, and pass legislation that puts an end to the use of past criminal history as a criterion for eligibility for education, employment, housing, loans, and voting. End racial and religious proﬁling of South Asian, Arab, and Muslim people by federal, state, and local police forces Establish community based response systems, entirely seperated from the carceral state, in order respond to targeted anti-asian, anti-latino, antisemitic, anti-black, anti-indigenous, islamaphobic, and all types of racist violence Expand disability beneﬁts and protective legislation around sick leave and workers compensation Extend and expand sanctuary protections across the US to end cooperation between state and local law enforcement with ICE; prevent local state agencies from collecting or sharing an individual’s immigration information with federal agencies; ban state and local resources from being used to aid federal immigration enforcement; and guarantee access and provision of legal counsel to undocumented immigrants facing deportation Pass legislation that will work to end racial discrimination in the housing market Implement and fully fund programs for desegregation and integration for all public schools Increase access to education for immigrants by increasing funding for prekindergarten through college education and funding for adult education, English for Speakers of Other Languages (ESOL), High School Equivalency (HSE), prep, and English Language Learners (ELL) and Multilingual Learners (MLL) programs Broaden language justice through making translation resources more widely available End the legacy of colonial violence against indigenous people through repatriation, and call for the US adherence to existing treaties and statutes upholding indigenous rights and sovereignty End environmental racism and ensure clean air, water, and soil for all A Powerful Labor Movement The importance of a vibrant, ﬁghting labor movement to building socialist power cannot be overstated. In the ﬁrst half of the 20th century, U.S. labor unions were full of rank-and-ﬁle socialists. They helped build more militant unions by training workers to organize and encouraging them to take on the boss. During this time, union membership grew and workers won many concessions from both capitalists and the state. Through class conﬂict in the workplace and in society more broadly, the American working class exercised enough power to win many of the rights that we still have today. Times have changed. The labor movement has been on the defensive for decades. Red scare panics resulted in the purge of socialists from unions and expulsion of left-wing unions from labor federations, forcibly separating socialists from the labor movement. The triumph of business unionism moved class conﬂict out of the workplace and into the legal system, with unions adopting no-strike clauses and union leadership cutting back room deals and making concessions to the bosses. Capital has undertaken an organized political offensive, systematically dismantling legal rights for unions and workers. The results are clear: productivity has risen exponentially while real wages and the material conditions of workers have declined. But we have some cause for optimism. The Red For Ed strike wave, union reform movements, and workplace organizing in response to the COVID-19 pandemic indicate the rise of a ﬁghting spirit among union and non-union workers. It is imperative that DSA members fan that ﬂame, by taking rank-and-ﬁle union jobs, organizing new unions in their workplaces, building reform caucuses that ﬁght for democracy in their unions, and providing support to workers on strike. It will take a huge ﬁght to win any improvement to the lives of working class people. An organized, militant working class is the only force capable of winning these ﬁghts. As socialists, we see every battle as an opportunity to cohere the class into that force: one that is capable of transforming the relationships of ownership and production, from the current system of exploitation and private accumulation, into a socialized system that serves the common good. The socialist movement and the labor movement will rise or fall together. Our demands: Social ownership of all major industry and infrastructure Work for all who want it: full employment through a federal jobs guarantee A just transition for fossil fuel workers, as well as all other workers whose current jobs do not serve the common good, including fully funded retraining and transition to union public sector jobs or digniﬁed retirement with robust pensions. A four-day, 32-hour work week with no reduction in wages or beneﬁts International equality for all workers through enacting labor and trade agreements that mandate equal rights, a living wage, safe working conditions, and collective bargaining rights to workers around the world A digniﬁed life for all, from birth through old age through universal, public child care, education, disability insurance, unemployment insurance, and pensions The legal right to a union for all Pass the PRO Act and fully repeal the Taft-Hartley Act Union recognition through a simple majority vote, “card check” Cover farm workers, street vendors, day laborers, domestic workers, and “gig economy” workers under the National Labor Relations Act, regardless of immigration status The right to strike for all workers End “at will” employment End “right to work” laws Immediately raise the federal minimum wage to $15 , with no exceptions for disability, tipped workers, or any other reason, and index it to inﬂation Economic Justice Over the past half century, wealth, and therefore economic and political power, have consolidated in fewer and fewer hands even as the conditions of most people’s lives deteriorate. These changes resulted from governments’ and corporations’ response to a crisis of proﬁtability that culminated in attacks on labor and social and economic protections. Private debt is growing; wages have declined in real terms or failed to increase with productivity; and public austerity and incarceration endanger communities and make it diﬃcult for many of us to pay for rent, food, childcare, or housing. As class and regional disparities in health, education, and infrastructure have widened, the fundamental divides of racial capitalism have also deepened. An economy increasingly based around ﬁnancial speculation will not provide for human needs or, speciﬁcally, deliver essential goods like pharmaceuticals, healthcare, and safe transportation. We propose a program of transformative regulation, nationalization, social ownership, and internationalism that builds the solidarity and democratic power necessary for us to succeed. We call for the nationalization of businesses like utilities and critical manufacturing and technology companies, alongside regulation of corporate, communications, data, and ﬁnancial sectors. We seek to ensure social and worker control over these businesses. We support an expansion of worker cooperatives, mutual aid institutions, cooperative media, physical infrastructure, care work, and collective land ownership. To ensure the well-being of everyone, we also must secure adequate compensation and living standards, as well as effective infrastructure, healthcare, and institutions in our communities and abroad. We can fund much of this through public development and retail banks, socialized government ﬁnance, and taxing the rich and corporations. Wealth taxes, increased progressive income tax rates on the highest earners, and increased estate taxes can redistribute wealth from the billionaires who hoard it to the workers who made it. We ﬁght for the abolition of capitalism and the creation of a democratically run economy that provides for people’s needs. Our demands: Social ownership and democratic control of utilities and key industries including water, gas, electric, telecommunications, media, and internet service providers and other critical sectors of the economy through direct government support, public banks, and pension funds at every level of government Nationalize and socialize (through worker and community ownership and control) institutions of monetary policy, insurance, real estate, and ﬁnance Ensure that employees have the right to purchase businesses and are able to secure funding to facilitate their cooperative ownership in the event of a sale or closure Ensure public control of communications technology and expand infrastructure Implement public or commonly owned WiFi networks with high-speed broadband, internet management, technology services, internet service providers, and data storage to curtail the unprecedented power of technology companies over media, communications, and political life Extend individuals’ rights to data privacy, control, and portability with respect to all applications, providers, and devices Expand physical, green infrastructure such as transportation, technology and data centers, and building retroﬁtting Protect and expand social insurance and pensions: Fully fund public and private pension funds and allow them to consider interests beyond maximum proﬁts in choosing where to invest Fully fund Social Security and disability beneﬁts and introduce new and comprehensive public pension beneﬁts that are under worker control Immediate increase to disability funds for individuals and families End means testing for disability-based Social Security Insurance, including an end to using spouse income to means test for SSI End the current state-based unemployment insurance and adopt a generous, universal digniﬁed national unemployment insurance system that supports and is supported by organized labor. An expanded United States Postal Service, including postal retail banking to end reliance on check-cashing and payday loan facilities and expand services, public WiFi, and other appropriate public goods and services; fully fund the USPS and eliminate multi-decade pension pre-funding requirements unique to the USPS Create public development banks on the federal level, states, and cities to fund social and technological development for the beneﬁt of all Ensure free and democratic public college and, where viable, free private college for all students and democratize and fund instruction inclusive of all students while minimizing testing at all levels of education Cancel all student loan and medical debt , reform bankruptcy laws to make it easier to ﬁle for individual bankruptcy, provide a right to counsel for all debtors facing litigation Disconnect property taxes from school funding and fully fund public education Create a unified, democratic, and public banking system that will socialize the fuel of the capitalist system; finance. It, and it’s local community based networks will: Provide stagnant and de-industrialized areas with long-term, dependable access to loans for the productive sectors of the economy with a focus on manufacturing co-operatives and the green transition. Supply farmers with access to affordable credit, relieve them of massive debt burdens, and fight against corporate agricultural concentration. Provide funding for infrastructure and construction projects that help end financial dependence on developers, contractors, “public-private partnerships,” and landlords. Support R&D nationwide to foster scientific advancement and reduce university and researcher dependence on the Department of Defense and corporate contracts. Provide easy and dependable access for people’s savings and checking accounts in towns and neighborhoods underserved by the large commercial retail banks. And create a more democratically accountable monetary system away from the influence of individuals connected to Wall Street and the large investment banks. Realize the foundations laid by capitalism itself and its centralization of finance and rather than breaking up the big banks, bring them under working class control for the benefit of all. Regulation of the economy: Patent and copyright: end or limit counterproductive protections, particularly in medicine and agriculture, create a technology commons, and facilitate the transfer of technology through the non-industrialized world Financial regulation: strict regulation of the ﬁnancial industry to roll back the over ﬁnancialization of the economy, decrease the power of ﬁnancial corporations, and help control runaway inequality and systemic ﬁnancial and climate crises, including by reinstating the Glass-Steagall Act to separate types of ﬁnancial institutions and limit their geographic scope Food and farming: regulate food prices and safety and protect small farmers through limitations on food commodity trading, pricing, and supply management Corporations: end corporate personhood, punish corporate bad actors by dechartering corporations, limit the size and power of businesses not susceptible to nationalization or social control, and limit maximum wages Treaties: Ensure that trade treaties and similar intergovernmental structures secure environmental, labor, and other civil rights and economic protections and legal enforcement mechanisms Taxation: Reduce and eliminate regressive sales and excise taxes that punish the working class; increase tax rates on upper income earners, institute wealth taxes, increase estate taxes, and tax ﬁnancial transactions, capital gains, luxury purchases, and domestic and global corporations Gender and Sexuality Justice DSA is a socialist feminist organization. We organize people of all genders to ﬁght against systems of oppression and exploitation including patriarchy, capitalism, and white supremacy. Liberal representation feminism is content with increasing the number of female faces in oppressive structures. A few women in positions of power, however, is not liberation. Liberation means all genders having freedom and control over their own lives and bodies through ending exploitation. DSA ﬁghts to build a feminism for and by the working class and all oppressed people. Capitalism speciﬁcally impacts women workers through devaluing of feminized labor, sexual violence in the workplace, unpaid housework, and the expectation of emotional labor. DSA ﬁghts for the democratization of domestic and care work, political and social liberation for all genders, full bodily autonomy for all, and the end of state recognition of the gender binary. We stand in solidarity with grassroots feminist movements around the world in their ﬁght against capitalist oppression and exploitation. We organize for the liberation of queer people, understanding that liberation – having the power to deﬁne our life choices, and fulﬁll our greatest potential — depends on achieving economic justice for the multiracial working class, and all oppressed people. We ﬁght against violence against black transgender women, federal and state discrimination, and all political and social barriers to full control over our bodies and sexualities. We seek equity so that queer people, subject to discrimination and violence, have the means to live a liberated, fulﬁlling life. We strongly oppose “rainbow capitalism,” in which banks, police, and corporations wrap themselves in Pride ﬂags during June in order to make proﬁt, all while exploiting queer workers. We likewise reject “homonationalism,” the process of using superﬁcial support of LGBTQ+ people, such as US military propaganda featuring gay couples, to provide cover for the brutalities of the American empire. Companies in the military-industrial complex may march in corporate Pride parades, but we recognize them for what they are: enemies of the global working class, and of the international queer liberation movement. We seek nothing less than liberation. Our demands: Reproductive justice for all Free contraception and birth control for all who want it, provided by the state Free fertility treatment for all Free abortion on demand Repeal of the Hyde Amendment and all legal restrictions on abortion access Reparations for all those impacted by reproductive and sexual violence committed by the state, such as those forced to undergo hysterectomies in ICE detension An immediate end to forced sterilization of disabled people Affordable representation of disabled people within family courts Protection and expansion of the legal rights of disabled parents regarding guardianship Paid parental leave for all people Universal child care, elder care, and pre-kindergarten Quality, age appropriate, and comprehensive sex-ed taught in schools End employment and housing discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity and expression Enact federal and state anti-discrimination laws, including passage of ENDA and the Equality Act, as well as the addition of “sexual orientation, gender identity and expression” as a protected category in all human rights laws Require “just cause” for evicting someone from housing or terminating employment Enhance and strengthen equal pay guarantees, including by requiring the EEOC to resume collecting pay data from large employers, forbidding prior salary from being considered in setting pay rates, and increasing transparency and protections for workers discussing their own pay Housing for all and a universal ban on housing discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity End anti-queer violence The establishment of community-based response systems to transphobic and homophobic violence, especially violence targeting black trans women, that is entirely separated from the police and criminal law system Put in place greater protections for survivors of sexual assault and abolition of the requirement that survivors ﬁle a police report to access funds Allow transgender prisoners to be housed in facilities reﬂecting their gender identities Guarantee queer-friendly and gender aﬃrming healthcare Enact a single-payer Medicare for All system that provides free queer sexual health and gender aﬃrming healthcare, including HIV care, PrEP, fertilty treatments, birth control, abortion care, mental health care, hormone replacement therapy, and gender-aﬃrming surgeries Allow trans minors to access gender aﬃrming care without parental consent Prioritize funding for health centers that provide transgender healthcare, especially in rural and conservative areas, on reservations, and in underserved urban areas Guarantee that transition-related healthcare, including HRT and surgery, to all incarcerated people who request it End gender restrictions in insurance coverage, such as the practice of only covering contraceptive costs for women, and demand healthcare tailored to our actual bodies rather than our ID cards End gendered restrictions on medical care, including but not limited to services available to sexual assault survivors End the repression of sex workers and fully decriminalize sex work nationwide Repeal FOSTA/SESTA Increase consideration of the intersection of disability and sex work and provision of speciﬁc resources for disabled sex workers Dignity for domestic and care workers Increased wages for domestic labor and care work, including through a $15 minimum wage indexed to inﬂation Require domestic laborers and home health aides to be paid for all hours worked The end of mandated 24-hour workdays End the state recognition of the gender binary and enforcement of heteronormativity Remove all barriers and requirements to changing one’s ID gender marker and legal name End all laws prohibiting cohabitation of unrelated people, which exist only to privilege the heterosexual nuclear family over nontraditional and chosen family End conversion therapy and provide stronger supportive care for minors whose families abandon them Grant all privileges afforded to married couples to all consenting partnerships Eliminate the ﬁnancial and healthcare barriers for disabled people to marry freely Green New Deal Capitalism has created an existential crisis for humanity through endless extraction, exploitation, and destruction of our planet. By chasing short-term profits without regard for long-term impact, climate change is yet another challenge humans will have to overcome in the 21st century. Accompanying the changing climate is a crisis in biodiversity that is historic at a geological level. Instead of pursuing a rational strategy to tackle the climate and ecological breakdown, the capitalist class has used it to further already-existing massive wealth inequality, suppress democracy, make jobs precarious, foster racialized and gendered violence, militarize borders, and start endless wars. The members of global society made most vulnerable by colonialism are hit hardest and first, and the frontlines of the climate crisis are quickly expanding to threaten the whole working class. Economic elites defer their timelines of action to 2050 or later, well past the time they have to deal with consequences of their failures—but faster decarbonization will give all of us the greatest chance of avoiding more catastrophic climate tipping points. DSA is fighting for a social order that works for people and our planet, not profit. We’re fighting for a Green New Deal that shifts power to the working class, ends the domination of massive corporations over our lives, repairs our infrastructure, and regenerates living systems. Our goal is a truly just transition to a sustainable worldwide economy based on societal and ecological care, that secures human flourishing for many generations to come. Our demands: Decarbonize the economy within a decade. Mobilize all carbon-intensive sectors of the US economy to eliminate greenhouse gas emissions at the source as fast as technically possible, and shift from endless fossil-fueled growth to regenerative systems. Build consensus throughout the Global North for decarbonization targets that greatly outpace those of less industrialized countries, which have contributed the least to and will suffer the most from global warming, while highly industrialized societies have the greatest capacity to rapidly transform to zero-carbon systems. Scale up processes that safely and naturally draw down and remove excess carbon from the atmosphere—not as market-based “offsets” for ongoing emissions, but to begin restoring a safe climate for all. Democratize control over major energy systems and resources. Nationalize fossil fuel producers to phase them out as quickly as necessary—no new fossil fuel projects can be authorized or built. Socialize fossil-dependent industries so that they can be scaled back or transformed to fossil-free processes. Establish public ownership of energy utilities and the electric grid, and support energy cooperatives and community energy projects for democratic control of the rapid shift to 100% renewable energy that is carbon-free in operation, including solar, wind, and geothermal sources. All generation sources must be compatible with regional terrain and minimally detrimental to local communities and wildlife. Safe fossil-free power plants on the current grid should not be phased out unless they are replaced by fully renewable energy and maintain a workforce of comparable or higher labor union density. Socialize the agricultural system and shift from monoculture and factory farms to diversified agroecological production, including administration or ownership of farmworkers. Center the working class in a just transition to an economy of societal and ecological care. Guarantee a job with union wages and benefits to everyone who wants one by creating millions of public sector jobs and funding massive direct investments to decarbonizing infrastructure, ecosystem restoration, climate adaptation, and low-carbon care sectors, focusing first on finding dignified work with matching salaries for workers in fossil fuel industries. Expand funding for public research and development of green technology and agroecology. Ensure workers’ democratic control over the use of technological innovation and automation at work. Decommodify survival, so no one’s life depends on their ability to work or to pay. Guarantee publicly available water, energy, transit, food, and other necessities for all, free of charge. Encourage replacement of individually-owned vehicles and short-haul air travel with free public transit, expanded regional and high-speed electric rail, shared vehicles, bicycles and other non-fossil-fuel modes of transportation in ways that benefit disadvantaged communities. Work cooperatively with communities in the line of climatic danger to relocate to safer grounds. Guarantee substantial public resources to help communities plan environmental impact mitigation, resiliency, and preparation for climate shocks, material shortages, and other consequences of blowing past planetary boundaries. Maintain public sector and community disaster response and relief systems to prevent private disaster profiteering Reinvent our communities to serve people and the planet, not profit. ○ Ensure land and resources are prioritized for building resilient communities and ecosystems for the many, not the few. Prioritize funding for projects that build community health and wealth, beginning with working class, racialized, and Indigenous communities that are on the frontlines of the climate crisis and collective struggles for environmental justice. Work within cities, towns, and rural communities to provide better and more sustainable lives through improved land use, sprawl repair, and support for household and neighborhood downshifting. Fund targeted cleanup efforts to address environmental injustices and meet a demand of clean air, water, and soil for all. Facilitate the creation of neighborhood transition councils as hubs of distribution, education, participatory planning, and democratic decision-making. Expand public conservation and restoration of forests, grasslands, wetlands, and wildlife preserves to restore biodiversity, enable natural carbon capture, and preserve public lands for future generations. Expand environmental regulations involving clean air, water, energy, waste disposal and restoration, and natural systems and plant and animal life. Strictly regulate and/or eliminate the use of “forever chemicals” like PFAS (Perfluorooctanoic acid) and utilize the precautionary principle for chemicals going forward. Enforce workplace safety and health standards rigorously to protect workers. Demilitarize, decolonize, and strive for a future of international solidarity and cooperation toward global climate justice. Ensure that the domestic Green New Deal agenda does not negatively impact the working class in other countries, deepen colonial relations between Global North and South, or further the dispossession and exploitation of Indigenous people, but is instead consistent with and supports principles of global justice and liberation; Enact policies and join in treaties to stop the global ecological crises. United States treaty commitments must account for our historical responsibility for the largest total and per capita greenhouse gas emissions, which will drive climate change for generations to come. Welcome those displaced by climate crisis and an extractive global economy, and end the system of exploitation and oppression of migrants, refugees, and asylum seekers. Transform the rules of the capitalist global economy, through both domestic policy and multilateral cooperation toward decarbonization, the dismantling of neocolonialism, payment of ecological debt with reparatory North-to-South public finance, rewriting of intellectual property rules to facilitate the sharing of life-saving green technology and know-how, and the realization of global climate justice, potentially to be articulated as a Global Green New Deal. Recognize the sovereignty of Indigenous peoples, with rights to free, prior, and informed consent before activities that will affect their territory or environment. Accept the decisions of Indigenous communities regarding the construction of future green infrastructure projects that impact their lands and the living beings they support. Combat the massive carbon footprint of the US military-industrial complex by struggling to dismantle US empire, rather than greenwashing its ongoing occupations all over the world. Reparations for the human and environmental destruction caused by US corporations, and full funding for remediation of toxic military sites Redistribute resources from the worst polluters Impose just and progressive taxes on the rich, on big corporations, and on dirty industry Divert funds away from our government’s bloated militarized budget, which has nothing to do with defense of people living within American borders and everything to do with maintaining imperial dominance over other nations and capitalist control of the world’s resources, until global climate funding greatly exceeds military spending. Shift subsidies to extractive, exploitative, unhealthy and militarized industry to support regenerative sectors of our new economy instead. Health Justice We need a system of guaranteed healthcare that prioritizes the well being of working-class Americans over the proﬁts of insurance companies and their billionaire executives. We need a single, universal system with comprehensive coverage that is free at the point of service. We need to build a health justice movement to save lives. The COVID-19 pandemic has killed hundreds of thousands of people, exposed America’s massive racial and economic health disparities, and made clear the necessity of free healthcare for all. State-sanctioned police violence and socio-economic and environmental factors, along with co-morbidities rooted in the for-proﬁt healthcare system, account for the disproportionate deaths from illness and disease including COVID-19 among Black and Indigenous people in the United States. Meanwhile, national oppression, racism, and colonialism exacerbate the consequences of the pandemic for the Global South. Medicare for All provides the model for a society based on solidarity and caregiving, which re-directs resources and establishes healthcare as a public good. Food insecurity, environmental racism, mass incarceration, police violence, and the violence of mass detention of immigrants: these must all be addressed as interlocking public health crises that demand a comprehensive, transformative response. We must create a culturally competent healthcare system that listens to, honors, and responds to the experience of Black and brown patients. Our government must ensure that everyone, regardless of employment, immigration, or insurance status, receives the healthcare they need — including free testing and treatment, mental healthcare, and long-term care for people with disabilities. Health care is 20% of the US economy: Medicare for All is not only the only moral choice, it will strike a blow against capitalist interests by eliminating a huge source of private proﬁt and replacing it with a universal public good. Our horizon is a de-commodiﬁed, publicly run national healthcare system in which no one proﬁts from the health or sickness of another person. All patients, regardless of race, gender, medical history, income, or immigration status, must receive high-quality, equitable care. Our demands: Public ownership and funding of our healthcare system , including hospitals and other healthcare providers, pharmaceutical research and production, and other medical research and production facilities Medicare for All, which is: A Single Health Program: Everyone will be covered by one health insurance program, administered by the federal government, providing equitable medical services and treatments Comprehensive Coverage: All medically necessary services will be fully covered. Everyone goes to the provider of their choice. Dental, vision, mental health, reproductive health, long-term care, and pharmaceuticals are all included. Free at the point of service: All healthcare costs will be ﬁnanced through taxes, predominantly on the wealthy and corporations; no copays, no fees, no deductibles and no premiums. Ever. Universal Coverage: Coverage for all United States residents — non-citizens included. Jobs: A jobs initiative and severance for those affected by the transition to publicly administered healthcare. Increased federal funding for community health centers, the Veterans Health Administration, the Indian Health Service, public hospital systems, disability care, mental health services, and other existing underfunded public health services Free medical school, nursing school, and other training for healthcare workers that creates a workforce that is trained and equipped to deliver healthcare equitably Guarantee home health care for all who need it to decrease institutionalization Establish an Oﬃce of Health Equity that produces annual reports on racial health disparities and an action plan to address them Training for medical workers to address racial disparities, treat the disabled and chronically ill with compassion, treat fat people with dignity, and provide conscientious care to all Eliminate the undue political inﬂuence of the healthcare industry , including hospital corporations, which must be returned to their community service mission Fund research into health issues based on human need rather than the potential to make proﬁt Implement state-level Medicare for All programs in large states and expand Medicare/Medicaid funding in all states Housing for All The housing market, along with the workplace, is one of the key places where the working class experiences direct exploitation by the capitalist class. Home ownership has been the key way working-class people have been able to build a modicum of wealth in this country, but skyrocketing property values and the decline of real earnings have put that dream out of reach for many Americans. At the same time, residential segregation and redlining are the major driving force in perpetuating racial inequality in the United States. In cities across the country, rental prices have been driven higher and higher and homelessness has skyrocketed as a result. The COVID-19 crisis has made all this even worse, creating immense turmoil for people’s housing, highlighting and exacerbating these inequities. The pandemic is only one example of the escalating number of crises we are set to face as climate change increases the frequency of drought and other natural disasters, and climate migration becomes the reality for millions. As we emerge from the crisis, we face mass evictions and homelessness as millions cannot pay for their homes without state intervention. Relief from the COVID crisis and housing policy in general must prioritize renters and homeowners over landlords, private capital ﬁrms, and banks. We seek to counter the dangers we are facing by building on the insurgent tenant movement, and further decommodifying housing and land. This can be done through canceling rent, closing eviction courts, and, as landlords exit the market, using state action to acquire private property and transform into public democratically controlled housing. We seek to build more connected and inclusive neighborhoods and communities by building out tenant unions and other local organizing. Every person deserves a safe and digniﬁed place to call home. Our demands: Public housing for all Repeal the federal Faircloth Amendment, which acts to prevent the construction of new public housing Cease sale of public housing assets to private interests Fully fund existing public housing, including maintenance and repairs Create and fund a Social Housing Acquisition fund that can intervene and acquire distressed assets and convert them to social housing using community land trusts, tenant opportunity to purchase, mutual housing associations Housing relief for all Recover from the COVID-19 economic crisis by canceling rent debt Pass a universal tenants’ bill of rights that includes right to renew your lease, universal rent control, right to organize a tenants’ union in your home, and a universal right to free counsel in housing court Ensure universal housing voucher acceptance to prevent discrimination based on income source. Mandate increase accessibility requirements of new constructions and make funds available to remodel private housing stock for low or ﬁxed income households to accommodate individuals with disabilities Abolish homelessness End homelessness in the United State by implementing housing-ﬁrst relief programs End discrimination on the basis of gender, sexuality, race, and religion at all shelters nationwide International Solidarity, Anti-Imperialism, and Anti-Militarism DSA operates in the heart of a global capitalist empire that has wrought untold suffering on billions of people and the environment. Solidarity with comrades around the globe is essential to begin undoing the bloody effects of endless wars, austerity, colonial exploitation, environmental destruction, stolen land, and other atrocities that make up the legacy of US actions in service of capital. As socialists living in the heart of the American empire, we must oppose imperialism and work to address, cease, and heal the harm caused by our ruling class. Only by listening to and aligning with those directly targeted by these policies can we begin to work toward a unified global vision of socialism and international working class solidarity. Stand in solidarity with labor, workers’ and socialist movements across the globe and popular movements against austerity, militarization, and repression. Support labor rights for all, regardless of immigration status, and inclusion of farm workers, street vendors, day laborers, and domestic workers under National Labor Relations Board legal protections Build an anti-war movement that opposes US intervention, including sanctions. Prioritize establishing relationships with mass parties and mass organizations in the Latin American region. Stand in solidarity with the Palestinian struggle against apartheid, colonialism, and military occupation, and for equality, human rights, and self-determination, including the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) movement. Support the Korean Peace and Reconciliation process, which is supported by the majority of South Koreans and is the product of the struggle of Korean left and popular movements. Support normalization of relations with Cuba, Iran, Venezuela, and other countries targeted for resisting US imperialism and exercising self-determination over their resources. End nationalistic posturing toward China, including the current trade war and any future aggressive economic, diplomatic, or military action. Seek to promote peaceful resolution of disputes with China and work with China on climate change and the threat of pandemics. End US government repression of journalists, whistleblowers, and others who expose war crimes and expose the realities of US foreign policy. Dramatically slash US military spending to a level sufficient for a genuine national defense, not the projection of power outside the country. Immediately withdraw from NATO. Work cooperatively with other governments and through the United Nations to solve global problems. Demilitarize the border and end all immigrant detention in the US. Grant immediate and unconditional Amnesty for all immigrants, regardless of current immigration status. End the Global War on Terror, including repealing the Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF), closing the Guatanamo Bay prison camp, withdrawing US troops from the Middle East and Africa, and ending extrajudicial executions (“drone strikes”), airstrikes, torture, and detention. Stop using economic and financial sanctions to punish other countries, such as Cuba, Venezuela, and Iran, that dare to act independently of the United States. End all broad-based sanctions that are designed to punish entire populations, violently coerce foreign governments, and instigate regime change. Rewrite the rules of trade, embodied in bilateral and multilateral trade and investment agreements like NAFTA, to strengthen rather than erode environmental protections, the power of labor, and the ability of Global South nations to chart their own development paths. Abolish USAID, NED, Voice of America, and other governmental agencies that cynically disguise capitalist control as aid and journalism. Discontinue US support of Israel’s oppression of the Palestinian people, including an end to all military aid and resisting the “normalization” of relations between the Israeli government and other governments. Formally end the Korean War with a peace treaty. Turn away from a new Cold War with China and instead seek to promote peaceful resolution of disputes with China and work with China on climate change and the threat of pandemics. Discontinue all support for Saudi Arabia’s military intervention in Yemen, which has caused a humanitarian disaster. Renounce the use of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction, and pursue agreements with other governments to abolish such weapons. End US military aid to all governments. Support and work with the people of Puerto Rico in extricating themselves from the strictures of the Jones Act (1920) and related acts of the 1910s and 1920s that established US control over shipping to Puerto Rico Overturn the Insular Cases (1901) that created the colonial status of the territories acquired from Spain following the Spanish-American War and all other laws and legal rulings that maintain the colonial status quo. DSA will work for the release of all political prisoners incarcerated for their resistance to US imperialism. Work with colonized peoples for the forgiveness of all debts and the granting of reparations to the survivors of this exploitation, as well as their descendants. Reject the Monroe Doctrine and interference with Latin American states asserting their sovereignty against the US, including support for the use of law as a weapon of conflict (called lawfare). Support a united Ireland. Support full rights and equal protection for Native people, restoration of tribal sovereignty. Instruct the Bureau of Indian Affairs to work toward a program of repatriation of Native lands. Stop seeking to dominate the world. Work toward a global just, green transition to achieve a sustainable economy and avert disastrous global climate change. Share technology based on global need not profit seeking, taking special account of the needs of Global South countries that are in the most danger. Share the burden of preparing the world for inevitable climate change effects. Transform the rules and structures of the global economy—currently embodied in trade agreements and institutions like the World Bank and IMF—that establish and force upon the Global South a neoliberal world order, and its replacement with a global economy that prioritizes the needs of the working class, equitable development, environmental protection, and sovereignty. Close all US foreign military bases. Support self-determination for the Palestinian people and a political solution to the current crisis premised on the guarantee of basic human rights, including an end to the military occupation, an end to discrimination against Palestinians within Israel, and the right of return of refugees, as outlined in the call for Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions. Support self-determination and full sovereignty for Hawai’i; Puerto Rico; Amerika Sāmoa (American Samoa); Guåhån (Guam); Northern Mariana Islands; Virgin Islands; and for all indigenous nations whose ancestral lands are within current US borders; as well as for the independence of all other overseas territories and dependencies controlled, occupied, or otherwise exploited by the USA. Support creation of a new global monetary order that treats all nations equally, to replace the current order that privileges the US dollar. The current system enables the richest capitalist nations to serve as financial safe havens, which damages the Global South. As democratic socialists, we recognize that migrants experience the most damning and direct crimes of the neoliberal capitalist system. Militarized borders, xenophobic/racist immigration laws, and an abusive prison industrial complex aim to dehumanize and marginalize immigrants, functioning to both suppress wages and divide the working class. We seek to abolish these and any barrier to the social, labor, and political power of migrants through an organized decolonial movement. Our response to this aggression is not reform, but full abolition of anti-immigrant policies, structures, and laws. Immigrants in the United States are living under apartheid conditions. Under the current legal framework, migrants in the US are disenfranchised from basic legal protections. Labor rights for all, regardless of immigration status, and inclusion of farm workers, street vendors, day laborers, and domestic workers under National Labor Relations Board legal protections Advocate for state-level legislation like NY’s Farm Laborers Fair Labor Practices Act that implemented collective bargaining rights and other labor protections at the state level Fundamentally transform flawed guestworker and temporary worker programs Legalization of all living in the U.S. at this time, including voting rights and a path to citizenship for every US resident, and recognize the right to migrate and the right to stay home Protect the right to asylum and safe entry and resettlement Demilitarize the border and end all immigrant detention and abolish ICE End all deportations and enforcement actions, immigration detention, private prison contracts, and deputization of local police forces Create an immigration court system independent from the executive branch and allow for full federal court review Priorities National Labor Commission National Electoral Committee Green New Deal Campaign Commission Publications Democratic Left Blog Democratic Left Print Socialist Forum Resources DSA Store DSA Fund 501(c)3 International Committee Religious Socialism Young Democratic Socialists of America The Democratic Socialists of America is the largest socialist organization in the United States, with over 90,000 members. We believe that working people should run both the economy and society democratically to meet human needs, not to make profits for a few. Join Us Donate 🌹 DSA --> Join Us --> --> Privacy Policy Contact 