URL: https://agriculture.house.gov/hr1/


	Agriculture and Rural Victories in H.R. 1 | House Agriculture Committee
Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display
Skip to Content
Menu
close menu
about
Chairman Thompson
Membership
Committee History
Rules and Jurisdiction
news
Press Releases
Opening Statements
Op-Eds
ICYMIs
Blog
Newsletters
subcommittees
General Farm Commodities, Risk Management, and Credit
Forestry and Horticulture
Conservation, Research, and Biotechnology
Nutrition and Foreign Agriculture
Livestock, Dairy, and Poultry
Commodity Markets, Digital Assets, and Rural Development
events
Hearings
Business Meetings
Listening Sessions
Calendar
policy
Legislation
Agriculture and Rural Victories in H.R. 1
2026 Farm Bill
2018 Farm Bill
Agricultural Labor Working Group
resources
Contact Us
COVID-19
-->
USDA
Internships
Subscribe
200th Anniversary
Repository
X
facebook
YouTube
instagram
Open search form
search
Submit
close search
Agriculture and Rural Victories in H.R. 1
The One Big Beautiful Bill, signed into law on July 4th 2025, represents the largest working class tax cut in history, but is also a landmark victory for the agricultural industry and rural America. While only Republicans voted for this critical legislation its benefits will reach farms families and small businesses in every congressional district. Many of these rewards are still on the horizon as implementation moves forward, promising lasting gains for communities across the country.
CLICK  BELOW TO SEE HOW YOUR STATE BENEFITS FROM H.R. 1
Certainty for Producers, Stability for Consumers
The ability to plan long term is imperative to the success of every business. Thanks to generational investments in the farm safety net, the agriculture provisions in republican-passed H.R. 1 finally provide America’s producers with a safety net that allows them to make long-term production decisions with confidence.
These targeted updates include a $54 billion modernization of Agriculture Risk Coverage (ARC) and Price Loss Coverage (PLC) to reflect market realities, nearly $6 billion for enhanced crop insurance premium support, and over $2 billion to support American producer’s access to essential export markets.
Each of these historic wins for the American agricultural sector helps to ensure consistent domestic food production. Having a safe and dependable food supply is essential to protect against the kinds of disruptions that drove astronomical price increases for American consumers under the Biden Administration.
Learn more on the House Committee on Agriculture's Blog 
here
.
subscribe form
subscribe
Republican Leader Glenn "GT" Thompson
-->
minority website
accessibility
privacy
contact
subscribe
back to the top
