URL: https://agriculture.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=7915


	Industry Stakeholders Praise Ag Committee's Budget Reconciliation Provisions | House Agriculture Committee
Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display
Skip to Content
Menu
close menu
about
Chairman Thompson
Membership
Committee History
Rules and Jurisdiction
news
Press Releases
Opening Statements
Op-Eds
ICYMIs
Blog
Newsletters
subcommittees
General Farm Commodities, Risk Management, and Credit
Forestry and Horticulture
Conservation, Research, and Biotechnology
Nutrition and Foreign Agriculture
Livestock, Dairy, and Poultry
Commodity Markets, Digital Assets, and Rural Development
events
Hearings
Business Meetings
Listening Sessions
Calendar
policy
Legislation
Agriculture and Rural Victories in H.R. 1
2026 Farm Bill
2018 Farm Bill
Agricultural Labor Working Group
resources
Contact Us
COVID-19
-->
USDA
Internships
Subscribe
200th Anniversary
Repository
X
facebook
YouTube
instagram
Open search form
search
Submit
close search
Press Releases
Industry Stakeholders Praise Ag Committee's Budget Reconciliation Provisions
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Print this Page
Share by Email
      Washington,
      May 21, 2025
Industry leaders, stakeholders, and associations are applauding the Committee on Agriculture's budget reconciliation provisions:
“Chairman GT Thompson’s House ag reconciliation bill contains key wins for America’s cattle farmers and ranchers. From boosting disaster recovery programs to strengthening foreign animal disease detection and prevention, this bill protects America’s livestock producers. Cattle producers continue to face emerging animal health threats but have not received the financial resources necessary to mitigate these threats in previous emergency legislative packages. The need for these investments is crucial. NCBA urges all House Agriculture Committee members to swiftly pass this bill,” 
said Tanner Beymer, Executive Director of Government Affairs, National Cattlemen’s Beef Association.
“SNAP now costs taxpayers approximately $100 billion per year and serves 12 percent of the US population, with caseloads and spending increasing steadily, irrespective of broader economic conditions. The reconciliation text released by the Agriculture Committee makes several important changes to address the program’s tremendous cost growth in recent years, while prioritizing employment and state accountability. These reforms will put SNAP on a more sustainable path, while refocusing the program on its core principles—helping low-income households afford food and supporting employment,”
 said Angela Rachidi, Senior Fellow and Rowe Scholar, American Enterprise Institute.
“On behalf of the Agricultural Retailers Association (ARA), I write to express our strong support for H. Con. Res. 14, the House Budget Reconciliation Bill—an essential step toward securing economic stability and growth for rural America, the agricultural sector, and the broader U.S. economy. This comprehensive package includes vital provisions that align with the needs of American farmers, ranchers, and ag retailers,” 
said Daren Coppock, President and CEO, Agricultural Retailers Association.
“But the GOP food-stamps bill notches incremental wins and is a point in the larger bill’s favor. Work as part of welfare used to be an area of bipartisan agreement in Washington. Republicans are right to hold onto that principle until Democrats come to their senses again,”
 said the Wall Street Journal Editorial Board.
“The National Cotton Council strongly supports efforts by the House of Representatives to advance the comprehensive reconciliation package titled the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, and we commend Chairman “GT” Thompson and all others who have worked so hard to get us to this point. In addition to extending a desperately needed lifeline to Rural America, this legislation will benefit all industries by lowering the tax burden and stimulating economic growth. We urge the House to come together to get this bill over the finish line in the coming days,” 
said the National Cotton Council.
“The Coalition to Promote U.S. Agricultural Exports applauds House Agriculture Committee Chairman G.T. Thompson’s commitment to doubling funding for the Market Access Program and the Foreign Market Development Program in the House Agriculture Committee reconciliation bill. This long-overdue reinvestment, the first since the 2002 Farm Bill, is a critical boost for U.S. farmers and ranchers competing to put American-grown, American-made products on the shelves and in the hands of consumers across the world. Confronted by a surging ag trade deficit, now forecast to reach $50 billion, this small but critical investment will meet the moment, and we stand ready to work with the Chairman to maintain this increase throughout the budget reconciliation process,” 
said the Coalition to Promote U.S. Agricultural Exports.
“America’s pork producers recognize and greatly appreciate the tireless efforts by congressional champions of farming and agriculture, especially Agriculture Committee Chairman G.T. Thompson, in securing as many pork industry priorities as possible in the House’s proposed reconciliation package. However, it is just as critical – if not more – that the committee keeps its promise to take action on a solution to the many problems triggered by California Proposition 12. We expect that members of both parties will continue to find the path to deliver the certainty and stability farmers need. Whether in the Farm Bill, or in other legislative provisions, we stand ready and willing to help the Congress deliver this needed, bipartisan solution,” 
said Duane Stateler, President, National Pork Producers Council.
“As the House Agriculture Committee continues its markup of the reconciliation package, I want to commend Chairman Thompson for including key farm bill provisions. Updating reference prices and commodity title payments to reflect today’s economic realities is critical. America’s farmers cannot endure another year of uncertainty following the expiration of the last farm bill. Additionally, the proposal to double funding for market development programs is a timely and necessary step to expand export opportunities amid continued trade volatility,”
 said Chuck Conner, President, National Council of Farmer Cooperatives.
"AmericanHort commends Chairman GT Thompson and the House Agriculture Committee for their leadership and diligence in assembling an agriculture package as part of the Reconciliation Bill. While our preference remains the passage of a comprehensive 2025 Farm Bill, we recognize this as an important step in that direction and appreciate the Committee's efforts to advance the legislative process. While our industry’s most pressing concerns remain the availability and cost of labor, we are encouraged by the inclusion of provisions aimed at supporting specialty crops and especially value the recognition given to the horticultural sector. As the process continues, AmericanHort is committed to working collaboratively with Chairman Thompson and the Committee to ensure the needs of our industry are addressed,” 
said Ken Fisher, President and CEO, AmericanHort.
“Texas Farm Bureau (TFB) strongly supports the U.S. House Committee on Agriculture’s reconciliation legislation, which includes critically needed provisions to provide long-term certainty for farm and ranch families across the state and nation. For far too long, farmers and ranchers have waited for Congress to act on a new farm bill that addresses current challenges such as record-high inflation, low commodity prices and extreme weather. The delay must not continue. We urge Congressional leaders to fully support Chairman G.T. Thompson in his effort to pass needed provisions for agriculture through reconciliation. It is critically important to act now to deliver results for the many farm and ranch families who work around the clock to meet the needs of consumers daily. Texas Farm Bureau looks forward to our continued work with Congress to keep key farm safety net provisions intact throughout the reconciliation process,” 
said Russell Boening, President, Texas Farm Bureau.
“Farm Bureau is grateful for the work of the House Agriculture and Ways and Means Committees to include crucial farm programs and improve and extend necessary business tax provisions in the budget reconciliation process. Modernizing farm safety net programs and providing a fair tax code is critical to the success of America’s farmers and ranchers, especially in today’s strained farm economy. We urge lawmakers to work swiftly to finalize any remaining edits and improvements to allow for the reconciliation package to move forward to ensure farmers can continue growing the food, fuel and fiber America’s families rely on,”
 said Zippy Duvall, President, American Farm Bureau Federation.
“NMPF commends House Agriculture Committee Chairman GT Thompson (R-PA) and members of the committee for the agricultural resources provided in the bill. Importantly for dairy, the bill extends the effective and popular Dairy Margin Coverage (DMC) program through 2031, giving producers much-needed certainty and continuity, and continues DMC’s discount option which allows farmers to receive a 25% premium discount if they “lock in” their coverage levels for all six years. The bill also updates DMC’s production history calculation to be based on a farmer’s highest milk production year of 2021, 2022, or 2023, ensuring that this calculation is based on recent on-farm milk production levels. The bill also provides $10 million for the U.S. Department of Agriculture to carry out mandatory dairy product processing cost and yield surveys and to publish the results of these cost surveys every two years. This will ensure that going forward, all dairy stakeholders have uniform, transparent data on manufacturing costs to better inform future milk pricing conversations. We are also pleased that the bill incorporates the remaining Inflation Reduction Act conservation dollars into the farm bill baseline, making these funds for voluntary, producer-led programs available over a longer time horizon. This results in increased long-term funding for popular, oversubscribed programs like the Environmental Quality Incentives Program. We also commend members for doubling funding for trade promotion programs to $400 million annually for the Market Access Program and $69 million annually for the Foreign Market Development program through 2031. MAP and FMD promote American-made dairy and agriculture products that compete with heavily subsidized foreign products, returning well over $20 in export revenue for every one dollar invested in the programs. Finally, we support the long-term funding the bill provides for important animal health programs, which help to prevent, control, and eradicate animal diseases,” 
said Gregg Doud, President and CEO, National Milk Producers Federation.
“These reforms represent a long-overdue end to the waste, fraud, and abuse in food stamps. These desperately needed changes will rein in costs, keep states accountable, and ensure benefits are preserved for the truly needy. We commend Chairman Thompson and the House Agriculture Committee for leading with courage and common sense to restore integrity to food stamps. It’s simple: Work requirements work. By strengthening work requirements in the federal food stamp program, the House Agriculture Committee is preserving resources for those most in need, while empowering states to help more Americans reenter the workforce and reclaim the dignity that comes with work,” 
said Tarren Bragdon, President and CEO at Foundation for Government Accountability (FGA).
“USA Rice applauds Chairman Thompson’s leadership and the House Agriculture Committee for addressing many of USA Rice’s Farm Bill priorities in its budget proposal.  As the reconciliation process moves forward, we urge Congress to support these investments, which are crucial for the economic viability of U.S. rice producers and the broader agricultural sector.  We look forward to working with our partners in Congress to ensure these provisions remain in the final legislation.  It is imperative that these essential safety net resources become law for rice producers,” 
said LG Raun, Chair, USA Rice Farmers.
“The United States Peanut Federation (USPF) is pleased to support U.S. House Agriculture Committee Chairman G.T. Thompson’s budget legislation that focuses on Investment in Rural America. This bill that is before the House Agriculture Committee addresses the current challenging economic times for the U.S. peanut industry. With the impact of rising costs of production and low commodity prices, farmers are struggling financially. There have been two extensions of the 2018 Farm Bill which, due to antiquated data, provides little in the form of a safety net for producers in today’s marketplace. Chairman Thompson’s bill addresses these outdated farm bill provisions, updates key pieces of the farm safety net, and supports commodity export, research, and marketing efforts. The legislation before the Committee assures that growers, agribusinesses, and rural communities can move forward with confidence in farm policy for the foreseeable future,”
 said Jamie Brown, Chairman, Unite States Peanut Federation.
"We are grateful to Chairman GT Thompson and his staff for advancing these vital investments in specialty crops that the Specialty Crop Farm Bill Alliance has been proposing since 2023. Although our strong preference is to enact agriculture policy in the context of a comprehensive bipartisan farm bill, we appreciate the Chairman’s long-standing support of our industry and for seizing this opportunity to support America’s specialty crop growers. Our message today is simple: Whenever Congress invests in American agriculture, it must include specialty crops. America’s specialty crop growers produce half the farm gate value in the United States and continue to confront a host of unprecedented challenges, yet specialty crops historically receive a small fraction of the farm bill’s investments. Rising input costs, limited access to labor, unfair trade practices, disruptions to foreign markets and natural disasters ranging from flood to drought all impede their global competitiveness. Nothing short of the survival of our domestic industry is at stake. The investments proposed by Chairman Thompson today are a key piece of the puzzle, but even if they survive the entire budget reconciliation process and are enacted into law there is still work to be done. Senate rules prohibit many of the new and innovative policy initiatives we’ve been proposing from being included in this bill, such as investments in mechanization and automation and reforms to crop insurance that would provide many of our growers with an affordable and effective safety net for the very first time. We continue to urge Congress to advance a comprehensive, bipartisan farm bill that incorporates our recommendations to bolster the competitiveness of America’s specialty crop growers. They domestically produce the safe, nutritious foods that more Americans should be consuming, as well as cultivate the trees, flowers and plants that play a vital role in the nation’s health and wellbeing,” 
said the Specialty Crop Farm Bill Alliance.
"Chairman Thompson has consistently demonstrated real leadership and a deep commitment to American agriculture. His efforts to invest in critical programs like research and trade promotion provide a much-needed lifeline to apple growers facing rising input costs and uncertain markets. We will keep working to ensure a comprehensive Farm Bill that meets the full range of our industry’s needs,” 
said Jim Bair, President & CEO, U.S. Apple Association.
“America’s sugarbeet and sugarcane farmers and workers are proud to produce sugar right here in America. Unfortunately, our family farms and factories are facing immense financial pressures which are making it difficult to continue. Several American sugar processing facilities have permanently closed in recent years resulting in the loss of multi-generational sugarbeet and sugarcane family farms and sugar worker jobs – an urgent signal that the farm safety net needs to be strengthened in order to keep sugar production in America and provide food security for consumers. Since the expiration of the 2018 Farm Bill two years ago, sugarbeet and sugarcane farmers have been pressing Congress to update and improve the farm safety net. We thank Chairman Thompson and his colleagues for including in the reconciliation package necessary updates to the Farm Bill sugar provisions which have received strong, bipartisan support in past Farm Bill deliberations,” 
said American Sugar Alliance.
“Sorghum producers depend on practical, forward-looking farm policy to remain competitive. While the increase to Title I provisions is modest compared to the ad hoc disaster assistance of the last seven years, they are certainly still significant. Provisions in the reconciliation that address reference prices, risk management tools and market opportunities are steps in the right direction. The conservation and biofuel investments are also appreciated,” 
said Amy France, Chair, National Sorghum Producers.
“We are grateful for Chairman Thompson and other members of the House Agriculture Committee for providing much needed relief to farmers who are struggling with uncertainty at every turn. This bill with its increased reference prices and enhanced crop insurance and marketing programs could prevent a farm operation from going out of business, while also providing hope for our rural communities who depend on a healthy farm economy for survival. PCG strongly encourages the committee to advance the bill. We can’t afford another year like the last three. Our association appreciates the collaborative efforts of our congressional allies thus far, and we look forward to a continued partnership that allows producers like me to stay in business,” 
said Travis Mires, President, Plains Cotton Growers.
"The Almond Alliance strongly supports Chairman Thompson’s efforts to prioritize specialty crops in the House Agriculture Committee’s reconciliation language. This proposal represents meaningful progress for producers, like almond growers—who depend on strong trade programs, sustained research investments, and reliable access to crop insurance. At a time of significant economic pressure for producers, these provisions offer essential tools and resources to help them remain resilient and competitive. We encourage a return to the regular five-year Farm Bill process and renewed bipartisan collaboration to deliver a thoughtful, long-term solution for American agriculture,” 
said Alexi Rodriguez, President and CEO, Almond Alliance
“The SWCA is very grateful to House Agriculture Committee Chairman G.T. Thompson for his efforts to make the most meaningful improvements to the farm safety net for farm and ranch families across the country in over 2 decades. While ad hoc assistance has been crucial and appreciated, farm and ranch families need the certainty and reliability of a strong farm bill. We believe the provisions based on last year’s bipartisan Farm Bill represent a better way for taxpayers and for producers across the country,” 
said Jim Sugarek, President, Southwest Council of Agribusiness.
“We applaud Chairman GT Thompson and the U.S. House Agriculture Committee for prioritizing meaningful citrus research investments in the Committee’s budget reconciliation draft. Florida’s citrus growers have been battling citrus greening for two decades and continue to seek solutions to combat the disease and boost production. The Emergency Citrus Disease Research and Extension Program is essential to revitalize Florida’s generations-old citrus industry, helping citrus remain sustainable for the future,”
 said Matt Joyner, Executive Vice President and CEO, Florida Citrus Mutual
“The Midwest Dry Bean Coalition and the Northarvest Bean Growers Association thanks House Agriculture Committee Chairman G.T. Thompson (R-PA) for his efforts to make meaningful and timely investments to the farm safety net, which are so critical for producers across our region and the nation. The continued focus on decoupled benefits and efforts to encourage diverse crop mixes, investments in conservation programs, and the MAP/FMD resources that will be used to promote U.S. commodities are all strong developments for dry edible bean producers,” 
said the Midwest Dry Bean Coalition and the Northarvest Bean Growers Association.
The Crop Insurance Professionals Association (CIPA) commends Chairman Thompson and the House Agriculture Committee for their important work to strengthen the farm safety net based on the bipartisan provisions of last year’s Farm Bill. The effort makes important strides to protect and promote the cornerstone of the farm safety net – Federal Crop Insurance – for our farm and ranch family customers.  At CIPA, our aim is to make crop insurance as effective for every farmer, every crop, and every region of the country as it is where it works most optimally for our producers, and this effort makes important strides in this endeavor.  While the investments are modest when compared to ad hoc disaster assistance, they will provide certainty and an improved level of protection for our farm and ranch families across the nation,” 
said William Cole, Chairman, Crop Insurance Professional Association.
“The American Sheep Industry Association (ASI) strongly supports the US House Agriculture Committee language supporting sheep producers in the budget reconciliation process as released by Chairman Thompson. The language supports key sheep provisions including the wool marketing loan with an updated loan rate and funding the “orphan programs” such as the National Sheep Industry Improvement Center, the Wool Manufacturers Trust and Wool Research and Promotion Trust. The language also reauthorizes with increased funds of the USDA Export Programs which help our industry market the majority of American wool. Additionally, a key priority of the Animal Disease Prevention and Management Programs of USDA are supported with an increase in funds.  These are critical to the livestock industry preparation to address foreign animal disease,” 
said the American Sheep Industry Association.
“The House Agriculture Committee’s reconciliation recommendations make important progress in strengthening work requirements for able-bodied adults on Food Stamps. Work requirements as a condition of welfare benefits for able-bodied adults help move people off welfare and into the workforce. However, the current Food Stamp work requirements are limited, weak, and often rendered ineffective by loopholes. Consequently, the food stamp program has fostered a culture of dependency. 13 million able-bodied adults received benefits in 2022 (the latest data available), but 66% of these work-capable welfare recipients did not work at all. However, because of the loopholes and exceptions, the current food stamp work requirements apply to a fraction of the able-bodied welfare recipients: fewer than 3.6 million able-bodied adults without dependents (ABAWDs). Only 16 percent of these work-capable adults worked the 20 hours per week required to satisfy the work requirement,”
 said the Economic Policy and Innovation Center.
“This week the House Agriculture Committee will reauthorize, in the reconciliation process, vital farm bill programs.  Chairman G.T. Thompson (R-PA) has included many improvements to the commodity program safety net such as increasing reference prices and reforming payment limits. The proposal also addresses needed investments in market development and export assistance through programs such as the Market Access Program and Foreign Market Development program. Neal Stoesser, Chairman of the US Rice Producers Association, would like to thank Chairman Thompson and the Committee for the inclusion of these much needed farm bill improvements in the reconciliation proposal and would urge Members to support the proposal.  The current rice reference price was enacted in the 2014 Farm Bill and does not reflect current production costs. Now is the time to address these needs.  USRPA looks forward to continuing to work with and support efforts by Congress to reauthorize and improve the commodity program safety net and export programs like MAP that empower farmers to market their crop around the world,” 
said the U.S. Rice Producers Association.
“We appreciate the leadership of Chairman GT Thompson in ensuring that farmers and ranchers across the country can continue to rely on crop insurance as a key component of the farm safety net. Crop insurance is effective, efficient, and reliable, and we believe that farmers in every region of the country will benefit from the improvements and investments made through this bill. As this process continues, we remain committed to ensuring all members of the House and Senate understand the importance of continuing to invest in and improve the Federal Crop Insurance Program,”
 said the Crop Insurance and Reinsurance Bureau (CIRB) and American Association of Crop Insurers (AACI).
“USA Pulses, representing growers and processors of dry peas, lentils, chickpeas and dry edible beans, strongly support the farm program and Farm Bill provisions included in the House Agriculture Committee’s Reconciliation package.  Reauthorization of the Farm Bill is overdue and we must seize this opportunity to update the farm safety net. Pulse growers strongly support the improvements to the Price Loss Coverage (PLC) and Agriculture Risk Coverage (ARC) programs, enhancements to crop insurance, the opportunity for farmers to update their base acreage, improvements to marketing loan rates, increased funding for market promotion and development, and funding to upgrade aging and outdated ag research facilities.  These are critical investments in our farmers and our food security and we urge the inclusion of these Farm Bill provisions in the Reconciliation package,” 
said USA pulses.
“As leaders of the citrus industry, we have long advocated for dedicated federal support to address citrus disease challenges through science-based solutions. Chairman Thompson’s leadership reinforces that the needs of our growers are being heard,” 
said Matt Joyner, CEO, Florida Citrus Mutual.
“This is an encouraging step forward for the citrus industry. Our growers are navigating increasing biological threats and economic pressures, and investments like this make a real difference in ensuring a future for U.S.-grown citrus,”
 Dale Murden, President, Texas Citrus Mutual.
“California’s citrus growers, like our counterparts in Florida and Texas, are facing unprecedented challenges. Chairman Thompson’s inclusion of this program is a strong signal that citrus is part of the future of American agriculture,”
 said Casey Creamer, President and CEO, California Citrus Mutual.
“United Egg Producers appreciates the Committee on Agriculture's hard work to promote animal health, notably through the National Animal Disease Preparedness Program and other elements of animal disease response. At a time when the nation's egg farmers are dealing with a years-long series of highly pathogenic avian influenza infections, the focus on animal health is critically important. UEP thanks the committee for doing hard work amid challenging circumstances,”
 said Chad Gregory, President and CEO, United Egg Producers.
“America’s forests grow the raw materials to build our homes, fuel our energy, and supply essential products across the country. Today, the US House Agriculture Committee and Ways and Means Committees took the first steps in supporting the more than 21 million American family forest owners by protecting and growing voluntary conservation programs and maintaining important tax provisions. Family lands fuel the industries that make America strong. They provide space for recreation markets like hunting, fishing, and wildlife. They clean our air and water and provide the wood products upon which all Americans rely. Federal support of these landowners, through tax provisions, conservation programs, and traditional and emerging market development, provides the support they need to strengthen local economies and rural livelihoods while improving our environment. Programs at the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) like voluntary conservation programs and the Forest Landowner Support program have been instrumental in supporting these lands that all Americans benefit from and incubating and unlocking access to new markets for these landowners. We look forward to working with both chambers of Congress to ensure strong support for programs at USDA that provide the safety net and strong markets forest landowners need as the budget reconciliation process advances. We thank the Committees for their work to date and for ensuring ongoing investment in voluntary conservation programs,”
 said Rita Hite, President and CEO, American Forest Foundation.
“The National Sunflower Association strongly supports the farm program and other Farm Bill provisions included in the House Agriculture Committee’s Reconciliation package.  Enactment of a new Farm Bill is overdue, and the Reconciliation bill likely represents the only viable opportunity to address the critical need to update the farm safety net. Crop insurance remains the number one risk management tool for our growers so the enhancements to crop insurance are greatly appreciated.  The increases to reference prices for the Price Loss Coverage (PLC) and improvements to Agriculture Risk Coverage (ARC) programs puts these programs more in line with the increased production costs our growers are currently facing. Additionally, the opportunity for farmers to update their base acreage, improvements to marketing loan rates, and funding to upgrade aging and outdated ag research facilities are vitally important to sunflower growers. We urge Congress to include these farm program provisions and U.S. agriculture investments in the Reconciliation package,”
 said the National Sunflower Association.
“The U.S. Canola Association strongly supports the farm program and other Farm Bill provisions included in the House Agriculture Committee’s Reconciliation package. Passage of a new Farm Bill is long overdue, and this package offers an opportunity to strengthen and modernize the farm safety net for American farmers. For canola farmers, the proposed updates are especially vital. Key improvements to the Price Loss Coverage (PLC) and Agriculture Risk Coverage (ARC) programs will provide much-needed safety net improvements amid market volatility. Enhancements to crop insurance, the ability to update base acreage, and increases in marketing loan rates are essential tools to help producers manage risk and respond to evolving conditions. Investments in agricultural research infrastructure will help drive innovation and keep American agriculture competitive. We urge Congress to prioritize and retain these vital provisions in the Reconciliation package to ensure that canola producers and all U.S. farmers have the tools and support needed for a resilient agricultural future,”
 said the U.S. Canola Association.
“The National Barley Growers Association supports the farm program and Farm Bill provisions included in the House Agriculture Committee’s Reconciliation package.  Enactment of a new Farm Bill is overdue and the Reconciliation bill likely represents the only viable opportunity to address the critical need to update the farm safety net. Of particular importance to barley growers are the improvements to the Price Loss Coverage (PLC) and Agriculture Risk Coverage (ARC) programs, enhancements to crop insurance, the opportunity for farmers to update their base acreage, improvements to marketing loan rates, increased funding for market promotion and development, and funding to upgrade aging and outdated ag research facilities. We urge Congress to include these Farm Bill provisions and investments in U.S. agriculture in the Reconciliation package,”
 said the National Barley Growers Association.
“The National Turkey Federation (NTF) supports efforts to strengthen the nation’s animal health infrastructure through targeted investments and enhanced response tools, which are essential to maintaining the United States' ability to manage animal disease outbreaks. As Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI) continues to affect turkey producers, Chairman GT Thompson’s House agriculture reconciliation bill offers a timely and necessary step toward improving preparedness for both current and future animal health challenges. NTF appreciates the House Agriculture Committee’s attention to this critical issue and urges continued bipartisan collaboration to protect American animal agriculture and the food supply,”
 said the National Turkey Federation.  
“NAWG appreciates Chairman Thompson’s leadership in advancing these critical investments in the farm safety net, conservation, trade, research, and other programs. This legislation reflects many of the key priorities that America’s wheat growers have been advocating for over the past three years. It is essential that these improvements to the farm safety net remain intact as Congress continues through the reconciliation process. While the committee bill does not include all of NAWG’s Farm Bill priorities, it does work to protect and enhance the crop insurance program, provide a meaningful increase in the Price Loss Coverage (PLC) program, double funding for the Market Access Program (MAP) and Foreign Market Development (FMD) program, and invest in agricultural research. Congress must act this year to strengthen the farm programs to provide farmers with a robust safety net and long-term certainty. Farmers need these improvements this year, not next year,”
 said Pat Clements, President, National Association of Wheat Growers.
“Voluntary, incentive-based programs help farmers make the most of their land and balance growing food for our nation and supporting clean water and healthy wildlife populations. While the 2018 Farm Bill expired in 2023 and has had two extensions, the committee’s inclusion of these highly popular and competitive programs with long-term funding will help to keep them operational while engaging additional landowners,”
 said Matt Lindler, Director of Government Affairs, National Wild Turkey Federation.
subscribe form
subscribe
Republican Leader Glenn "GT" Thompson
-->
minority website
accessibility
privacy
contact
subscribe
back to the top
