URL: https://langworthy.house.gov/media/press-releases/congressman-nick-langworthy-introduces-critical-legislation-119th-congress


January 10, 2025 
Press Release
WASHINGTON, D.C. – 
Today, Congressman Nick Langworthy (NY-23) introduced seven pieces of critical, bipartisan legislation for the 119th Congress to reaffirm his support for farmers, producers, and rural communities in Western New York and the Southern Tier. Six of the seven bills were previously introduced by Congressman Langworthy in the 118
th
 Congress, and all appeared in the base text of the House Agriculture Committee’s 2018 Farm Bill that was reported out of committee, but did not receive a vote by the full House.
Congressman Langworthy, who served as a member of the House Agriculture Committee during his first term, has made the needs of rural communities one of his top priorities. From supporting our dairy industry to giving specialty crops like our Concord grape growers a bigger seat at the table to enhancing the school to workforce pipeline in rural communities, this package of bills is designed to strengthen the Western New York and Southern Tier economies.  
“New York’s farmers and growers are some of the most important drivers of our state and district’s economy, and provide critical food resources to Americans,” 
said Congressman Nick Langworthy.
“
These pieces of legislation are specifically crafted with the help of stakeholders and leaders to help our hardworking farmers and producers, benefit seniors, and help our rural communities grow. I was disappointed we couldn’t get bipartisan cooperation to get the Farm Bill passed in the last Congress, but I look forward to working with House Agriculture Chairman GT Thompson and my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure these initiatives stay in the base text of the bill and we get it across the finish line.”
“New York is home to a wide variety of specialty crops, and those crop farmers need the same kinds of opportunities and protections enjoyed by farmers working with large commodities. The SAP, MAPLE and GRAPE acts help level the playing field. We also support raising the Dairy Margin Coverage, and the Dairy Farm Resiliency Act is a good start. Finally, we support the Fair Milk Pricing for Farmers Act because it would establish mandatory audited surveys as they relate to ‘make allowances.’ These audits would be a far better indicator of actual costs than current estimates, which are based on voluntary plant participation. New York Farm Bureau thanks Rep. Langworthy for his sponsorship of the bills and for his support of New York's family farms,” 
said David Fisher, New York Farm Bureau President.
Fair Milk Pricing for Farmers Act 
This bipartisan legislation is being co-lead by Representatives Derrick Van Orden (WI-03) and Joe Morelle (NY-25), Representatives Claudia Tenney (NY-24), Brad Finstad (MN-01) and John Moolenaar (MI-02) will serve as original cosponsors. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) is introducing companion legislation in the U.S. Senate. In addition, this legislation is supported by the New York Farm Bureau, National Milk Producers Federation, International Dairy Foods Association, and the American Farm Bureau Federation.
This legislation would require dairy processors to report their cost and yield information through a mandatory reporting system. This will increase transparency and confidence for farmers that their milk is being priced appropriately. 
“Volatility in the dairy market causes uncertainty for farmers and consumers alike, leading to unfair prices for both. It’s critical we take action to ensure everyone receives the fairest price possible, which is exactly what this legislation seeks to do,” 
said Congressman Joe Morelle
. “By giving farmers additional confidence in the dairy pricing system, the Fair Milk Pricing for Farmers Act will help create more stability in the dairy market and support my home state of New York’s proud history of dairy production. I’m proud to introduce this bill alongside Congressman Langworthy and all our partners, and I look forward to working with them to see it passed into law.”
“Our farmers need a milk pricing system they can count on, with fair and up-to-date make allowances,” 
said Rep. Van Orden.
“I’m proud to team up with Reps. Langworthy and Morelle to introduce the Fair Milk Pricing for Farmers Act and ensure any changes in make allowances are truly reflective of the costs our dairy processors are facing. Wisconsin is America’s Dairyland and our dairy farmers deserve this level of assurance from USDA.”
“New York dairy farmers deserve to be paid a fair price for their milk, and I will continue to push for improvements to the Federal Milk Marketing Order system,”
 said Senator Gillibrand.
 “By providing USDA this crucial authority to regularly collect the processing costs for dairy products, dairy producers, processors, and cooperatives can have access to updated data and ensure make allowances are set at the correct level. After successfully championing dairy pricing reforms last year, I look forward to passing this bipartisan bill and supporting New York’s dairy industry.”
“We commend Representative Nick Langworthy, R-NY, for once again spearheading bipartisan legislation to require USDA to conduct mandatory dairy manufacturing cost surveys every two years. These regular studies on the costs of processing raw milk into manufactured dairy products would provide greater transparency and accuracy to guide future dairy pricing conversations, so that future adjustments can be made based on market conditions. We look forward to working with the bill’s sponsors to move it through Congress this year as soon as possible.”
– Gregg Doud, President and CEO, National Milk Producers Federation.
“Timely authorization for regularly updated cost of processing surveys would provide dairy processors and producers the transparent data to ensure FMMOs accurately reflect ‘make allowances’ for manufacturing dairy products. This is critical to our industry's ability to ensure more accurate milk pricing, continue investing in dairy, innovate to meet consumer demand, and grow overall demand for milk.  IDFA is grateful to Reps. Langworthy, Morelle, Van Orden, Costa, Finstad, Moolenaar, Newhouse, Valadao, and Tenney for their leadership on this issue on behalf of the entire dairy industry,” 
said Michael Dykes, D.V.M., president and CEO, International Dairy Foods Association.
Dairy Farm Resiliency Act 
This bipartisan legislation is being co-lead by Representatives Derrick Van Orden (WI-03) and Joe Courtney (CT-02) and is supported by the New York Farm Bureau. 
The Dairy Farm Resiliency Act updates the Dairy Margin Coverage (DMC) program to better support small and medium-sized dairy farms by ensuring that production levels are updated every five years to reflect current farm sizes. This change helps protect farmers from financial losses due to volatile market conditions by allowing them to insure more of their milk production, addressing gaps in coverage for those who have grown since the program’s inception in 2018.
Supporting All Producers (SAP) Act 
This bipartisan legislation is being co-lead by Representative Becca Balint (VT-At Large) and is supported by the New York Farm Bureau, New York State Maple Producers Association, Vermont Maple Sugar Makers Association. Senator Peter Welch (D-VT) is introducing companion legislation in the U.S. Senate. 
The Supporting All Producers (SAP) Act, requires the USDA to consult with maple syrup producers on where to focus annual research and education priorities under the Acer Access and Development Program (ACER). The ACER program is a competitive grant to promote the domestic maple syrup industry through activities associated with research and education. This legislation would give the maple syrup industry needed input. 
"Sharing our state’s world-class maple with families across the country is a lifelong tradition for Vermonters. Preserving this part of our culture is crucial to ensuring Vermont’s sugarmakers can continue setting the gold standard in maple production for generations to come,” 
said Senator Welch. 
“The MAPLE Act and the SAP Act are strong, bipartisan bills that will support Vermont’s first-in-the-nation maple industry, and benefit maple lovers and our local economy.”
"In Vermont, our tight-knit communities flourish in part because of the strength of our culture and family farms, which in many towns is driven by maple syrup production. Input from maple producers themselves will allow for further education and research methods to strengthen this critical industry. I'm proud to reintroduce this bipartisan legislation with Rep. Langworthy and Sen. Welch to support our region’s maple industry," 
said Rep. Becca Balint (VT-AL).
Making Agricultural Products Locally Essential (MAPLE) Act 
This bipartisan legislation is being co-lead by Representative Joe Courtney (CT-02) and is supported by the New York Farm Bureau, New York State Maple Producers Association, Vermont Maple Sugar Makers Association. Senator Peter Welch (D-VT) is introducing companion legislation in the U.S. Senate. 
The
Making Agricultural Products Locally Essential (MAPLE) Act, would add maple syrup to the list of eligible products under the Seniors Farmers’ Market Nutrition Program (SFMNP), to provide low-income seniors with coupons that can be exchanged for eligible foods at farmers’ markets, roadside stands, and community-supported agriculture (CSA) programs. This would provide a new market for maple syrup and allow seniors increased access to nutritious, locally sourced maple syrup products.
“The Seniors Farmer’s Market Nutrition Program (SFMNP) has long helped seniors afford fresh fruits, vegetables, honey, and herbs from their local farmers markets. My colleagues and I are working together once again to expand the program to allow local maple syrup to be purchased with SFMNP benefits,”
said Congressman Courtney
. 
“The MAPLE Act would help seniors afford high-quality local maple syrup while supporting Connecticut's excellent maple syrup producers. I look forward to working with my colleagues and our maple syrup producers to see this bill advanced in the new Congress.”
Grape Research And Protection Expansion (GRAPE) Act 
This legislation is supported by the New York Farm Bureau, Farm Credit East. 
The Grape Research and Protection Expansion Act would create a crop insurance policy to cover losses incurred by, table, wine, and juice grape growers due to freeze events. Currently, there is no policy that exists to cover losses caused by freezes, which are becoming more common. 
Creating Access to Rural Employment and Education for Resilience and Success (CAREERS) Act 
This bipartisan legislation is being co-lead by Representative Jill Tokuda (HI-02) and is supported by Advance CTE, Association for Career and Technical Education, Association of Equipment Manufacturers, Associated Equipment Distributors. 
The Creating Access to Rural Employment and Education for Resilience and Success (CAREERS) Act would assist several industry sectors with setting up their workforce pipelines by expanding skills development opportunities in the Rural Innovation Stronger Economy (RISE) Grant Program for existing workforce challenges in rural America. 
“People across the country – including Hawaiʻi – are struggling to make ends meet. Especially with the rising cost of food, rent, healthcare, and other necessities, keeping a roof over your head and food on the table is difficult for too many American families. We need to fight the increasing cost of living while creating more economic opportunities for hardworking Americans,” 
said U.S. Rep. Jill Tokuda (HI-02).
“That’s why I am proud to once again co-lead the CAREERS Act with Rep. Langworthy which will help strengthen workforce training programs and create career pathways in our rural communities, helping Americans build a better life for themselves and their families.”
"Rural communities have millions of fulfilling, in-demand jobs, yet face increasingly urgent skilled workforce shortages. The CAREERS Act thoughtfully leverages Career Technical Education as a key strategy to provide high-quality skills development opportunities aligned with industry needs. Advance CTE is pleased to support the CAREERS Act and appreciates the legislation's efforts to remove geographic barriers for learners and workers to explore and gain skills in fields that help keep rural communities thriving,” 
said Advance CTE Executive Director Kate Kreamer.
“The greatest challenge facing equipment dealers is the lack of skilled service technicians,” 
said Daniel B. Fisher, Senior Vice President of Government Affairs, Associated Equipment Distributors.
 “AED commends Congressman Langworthy and Congresswoman Tokuda for introducing the CAREERS Act and addressing the persistent skills gap in rural communities. Their legislation will help create the pathways necessary to develop the workforce that businesses need to grow and prosper.”
Rural Telehealth and Education Enhancement Act of 2025 
This bipartisan legislation is being co-lead by Representative Chellie Pingree (ME-02)
The Rural Telehealth and Education Enhancement Act, would reauthorize the Distance Learning and Telemedicine Program (DLT), which awards grants to support and improve distance learning and telemedicine services in rural areas. The DLT at the Department of Agriculture (USDA) allocates grants to assist rural communities in acquiring the essential technology and training needed to establish connections between educational and medical experts, students, teachers, and patients residing in rural areas.
“In the 21st century, reliable access to technology should be seen not as a luxury, but as an 
essential part of our daily lives. The Rural Telehealth and Education Enhancement Act is an important step forward in addressing this critical issue,” 
said Congresswoman Pingree, a member of the House Agriculture Committee. “
Since its inception more than 30 years ago, the Department of Agriculture’s Distance Learning and Telemedicine Program has helped millions of students bridge the technology gap in our rural communities—including here in Maine—allowing students to connect with a range of educational resources while improving health services for patients. The bill will ensure the continued success of this incredible grant program, which has been remarkably effective in increasing access to training, education and health care resources across the country.”
Congressman Nick Langworthy represents the 23rd Congressional District of New York, including Allegany, Cattaraugus, Chautauqua, Chemung, Schuyler, Steuben, and 
Tioga
 Counties, as well as parts of Erie and 
Niagara
 Counties. Visit 
langworthy.house.gov
.
###
      Issues
:
Agriculture
