SOURCE: https://cbs6albany.com/news/local/15-county-sheriffs-gear-up-to-sue-over-ny-ban-on-local-federal-immigration-pacts
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-11


15 county sheriffs gear up to sue over NY ban on local-federal immigration pacts
Please ensure Javascript is enabled for purposes of
website accessibility
Skip to main content
Close
Download the App
Get your news faster with our mobile experience
Install
Now
76
°
Fri
74
°
Sat
77
°
Search
Search
User Icon
Watch
15 county sheriffs gear up to sue over NY ban on local-federal immigration pacts
by
Amanda Mohamad
Wed, August 26, 2026 at 5:25 PM
Updated 
Wed, August 26, 2026 at 10:40 PM
FILE - A federal agent wears an Immigration and Customs Enforcement badge in New York, June 10, 2025. (AP Photo/Yuki Iwamura)
Comment on this story
4
Comment
Share story
Share
topics: 
New York
287(g)
Immigration
Hochul
Sheriffs
Lawsuit
Federal court
Injunction
ALBANY, NY  — 
The Federation for American Immigration Reform is preparing for a court fight on behalf of 15 county sheriffs with Gov. Kathy Hochul over 
the new 287(g) agreement ban "Local Cops, Local Crimes" Act in New York
.
Rensselaer County Executive Steve McLaughlin made clear the county plans to challenge the law
, saying, “We’ll see you in court, Governor.” 
Hochul, defending the state’s position, said, “Courts have already spoken. But I’m confident we’ll win again.”
The dispute centers on New York’s “Local Cops, Local Crimes Act,” which blocks so-called 287(g) agreements—formal partnerships that allow local agencies to work with federal immigration authorities. Supporters of the agreements argue they are needed for public safety and to preserve sheriffs’ authority. Critics say the agreements can increase the likelihood that people are funneled into federal immigration enforcement, including for low-level offenses.
The sheriffs also filed an emergency motion seeking a temporary restraining order and a preliminary injunction to stop the state from voiding current 287(g) agreements.
Mateo Forero, director of investigations for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, criticized the law’s impact on sheriffs’ authority.
"What this law is doing is allowing the governor and the attorney general to subject their will over the authority and the Democratic substance that these sheriffs have under the New York Constitution," Forero said.
Immigration attorney Cianna Freeman of Whiteman Osterman 
&
 Hanna LLP said 287(g) agreements can change how people are policed and detained.
“I think what you see happen in practice, honestly, is when you have a 287(g) county, you're seeing more foreign nationals being picked up for more minor incident, minor infractions, driving without a license when they would pulled in because they have no license, things like that,” Freeman said.
The new state law is intended to change how local law enforcement handles people who may also be subject to federal immigration enforcement. Forero said the law would expand state oversight of county jail operations through a new office.
"What it allows, you know, the [Attorney General] to do through this new Office of Immigrant Trust is to constantly be policing day to day operational functions of county jails," Forero said. “And so, as I've discussed, that's getting to a core authority of the sheriff's office.”
The legal fight is now moving forward in federal court. A federal judge issued an order to show cause in the case tied to the request for a temporary restraining order, and the state has until Sept. 9 to respond.
RELATED: 
ICE touts new arrests as New York law ends local police cooperation with agency
Trending
Sheriff's investigator charged, accused of using Flock cameras to track ex-girlfriend
An Albany County Sheriff’s Office employee has been arrested and is accused of unauthorized use of law-enforcement databases.
Firefighters hurt battling Schoharie fire in challenging conditions
Multiple fire departments were called to the scene of a house fire on Sunnyside Road in Schoharie Wednesday night.According to the Schoharie Fire Department's A
Man who stole $4M from employer headed to prison
Kevin Stevens, 62, was CFO of A.E. Rosen Electrical. Prosecutors say the money was stolen between 2017 and 2025.
Uptick in interest for FDA-approved oral medication to help lower 'bad' cholesterol
A new FDA-approved daily pill aimed at lowering &ldquo;bad&rdquo; cholesterol is drawing attention from doctors and patients looking for another option to bring down high L
Deputies say driver found passed out in storage unit possessing crack cocaine
A routine check of a vehicle parked at a storage unit in South Glens Falls led to felony and drug charges against 64-year-old Mark Harrington.
NEWS IN PHOTOS:
"
Local
"
3
Firefighters hurt battling Schoharie fire in challenging conditions
6
Clubhouse launch coincides with impending closure of RISE’s 24-7 low-barrier shelter
6
Mechanicville Library continues to preserve WWII, Korea service member photo collection 
6
Pair charged after neglected dogs found in Hoosick Falls
