SOURCE: https://www.thecentersquare.com/new_york/article_085762eb-aa57-4f7c-84b8-fb1cae52838c.html
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-11


New York sheriffs sue Hochul over ban on ICE agreements | New York | thecentersquare.com
Skip to main content
You have permission to edit this article.
 Edit
Close
Site search
Search
Home
About
About The Center Square
Newsletters
Staff
FAQs
National
Investigations
States
Alabama
Alaska
Arizona
Arkansas
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
Florida
Georgia
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Pennsylvania
Rhode_island
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming
Issues
Accountability
Agriculture
Border
Education
Energy
Financial Services
Healthcare
Inflation
Public Safety
Veterans
Opinion
Polls
Video
Donate
Mission Statement
Impact Statement
Close
A close-up shows a police officer’s duty belt and holstered firearm. Photo: Kindel Media / 
Pexels
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp
SMS
Email
Print
Copy article link
Save
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp
SMS
Email
A close-up shows a police officer’s duty belt and holstered firearm. Photo: Kindel Media / 
Pexels
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp
SMS
Email
Print
Copy article link
Save
(The Center Square) — A group of New York sheriffs are suing the Hochul administration over a new law that bars them from entering into agreements with the federal government to help enforce immigration.
A 
lawsuit
, filed in U.S. District Court on Wednesday by Rensselaer County Sheriff Kyle Bourgault and more than a dozen other sheriffs, alleges that a provision of the newly enacted Local Cops Local Crimes Act banning so-called 287 (g) agreements with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement is an illegal overreach by the state government that interferes with contractual agreements between counties and the federal government. 
The sheriffs, who are being represented by the Federation for American Immigration Reform, said new restrictions "nullify the ability of independently elected constitutional officers to enter into contracts authorized by federal law."
"In doing so, they subject those officers’ core law-enforcement judgments to centralized state oversight and control," FAIR's Attorney Mateo Forero wrote in the 60-page complaint. "The resulting harm is imminent and irreparable."  
FAIR Executive Director and General Counsel Dale L. Wilcox, said New York's restrictions go beyond refusing to cooperate with federal immigration enforcement actions, but "actively dismantles existing, congressionally authorized partnerships that sheriffs lawfully entered to protect their communities."
"Independently elected sheriffs should not be forced by Albany to abandon tools that keep dangerous criminal aliens from walking back onto their streets," Wilcox said. "This lawsuit seeks to restore the status quo and vindicate the independence of the Office of Sheriff." 
The lawsuit, which seeks a temporary injunction blocking the 287 (g) agreement ban from being enforced, was filed after Hochul and New York Attorney General Letitia James held a press briefing, threatening to take legal action against a handful of sheriffs who hadn't said they would comply with the new rules. Tuesday was the deadline set by the Hochul administration, and at least 11 sheriffs said, agreed to cooperate. 
Hochul and James issued a joint statement late Tuesday in response to the legal challenge, defending the new law and dismissing the claims in the sheriffs' lawsuit. 
"This lawsuit is nothing but a frivolous waste of taxpayer dollars," the Democrats said. "The courts have already declined to block this law once, and we are confident they will do so again. In the meantime, we expect all law enforcement agencies in New York to uphold state law."
The new law "keeps New Yorkers safe by ensuring public safety resources go toward combating crime in our communities, not carrying out the work of ICE," Hochul and James said.
"The federal government claims they are going after the 'worst of the worst,' but every American has seen the reality: ICE is terrorizing communities and families with indiscriminate raids, detaining people without regard for criminal record, and using local law enforcement to deliver on the administration's mass deportation agenda," they said. 
Earlier this month, James and Hochul put sheriffs on notice that they have until Aug. 25 to terminate the 287(g) agreements and provide documentation verifying it or face legal action by the state to force their compliance.
This week, James issued subpoenas to sheriff's offices of Broome, Steuben, Nassau and Rensselaer counties, and Nassau County Police Department, demanding that they comply with the ban on ICE pacts. 
The new law is being challenged in court by the Department of Justice, which recently secured an injunction temporarily blocking a ban on ICE agents from wearing masks during immigration enforcement operations. New York has filed a countersuit to uphold the law. 
Facebook
Twitter
WhatsApp
SMS
Email
Print
Copy article link
Save
                Recommended for You
            Op-Ed: Unions Trampled Their Rights. These New Yorkers Fought Back
            Hochul signs New York 'union protection' bill into law
            Federal appeals court halts New York, New Jersey gas pipeline project
            Mamdani hit with fed lawsuit over city-run grocery stores
            Families from 9/11 urge Mamdani to skip Friday's 25th anniversary memorial
                New York
            National 9/11 memorial service honors 2,983 people killed 25 years ago and in 1993
            AI restrictions spread as K-12 school year begins
            Antisemitic conspiracies, allegations resurface ahead of 25th 9/11 anniversary
            Op-Ed: Infrastructure you don't have to build: The case for efficiency in New York
© Copyright 2025 Franklin News Foundation, 20 N. Clark St., Suite #3300, Chicago, IL 60602
 | 
Privacy Policy
Facebook
Twitter
