SOURCE: https://www.foxnews.com/politics/hochul-ice-policy-written-blood-victims-opponent-says-sheriffs-sue
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-11


Hochul faces legal challenge over NY law blocking ICE 287(g) deals | Fox News
        Recommended Videos
        Recommended Articles
Left Arrow
Liberal Virginia school district: Don't link 9/11 terror attacks to 'Islam or Muslims'
Massachusetts' highest court publicly reprimands judge accused of enabling immigrant to escape ICE
25 years later, 9/11 memories endure as nation gathers to honor nearly 3,000 lives lost
Ontario premier wants Republicans to lose House and Senate over Trump's trade war
Mamdani heads to 9/11 memorial despite 110,000-signature push from victims’ families to stay away
9/11 hero’s legacy lives on 25 years later as son unveils new tech lifeline for those facing grief
Republican cavalry arrives for Ken Paxton as big-bucks Texas offensive opens cash floodgates
Trump set to honor 9/11 victims, first responders at Pentagon on 25th anniversary
Trump issues blunt midterm warning, Vance greeted with ‘48’ chants: Top takeaways from GOP convention
Trump admin's list of US-designated 'foreign terrorist' groups in Latin America expands to 21
Vance declares Democrats ‘party of hatred,’ says party has moved beyond big government, censorship
Crowd erupts as Vance smacks down protester waving Mexican flag: 'Get your a-- over there'
Top GOP senator reveals what Dem colleagues are fretting about behind closed doors
Top Trump official reveals how 30-minute military op unlocked Venezuela oil windfall for US buyers
WATCH: Socialist protester blames 'provocateurs' after assaults at 'closest entry point' to Trump convention
Prosecutor Joseph diGenova resigns from DOJ role investigating Trump-Russia probes
Federal appeals court compares Trump migrant detention policy to Japanese American internment
Undercover video exposes Dem Senate nominee's plan to embrace socialists: 'Got to be together'
Bioweapon threat exposed as Anthropic sounds alarm on foreign actors plotting virus experiments
Fatwas, holy wars and socialism: Inside the Islamic conference where El-Sayed drew a hero’s welcome
Right Arrow
Left Arrow
Vance sends message to Charlie Kirk's children at GOP convention
Vance: Democrats are the party of hatred
New York Republican reflects on 9/11: ‘The scar is still there’
Republicans sound alarm on radicalization of the modern left
Pentagon unfurls American flag at sunrise 25 years since 9/11 attacks
Houthi rebels reportedly seize strategic Yemeni port as trade concerns mount
DeSantis notes that borrowing money would increase inflation
Republicans hammer modern Democratic Party at GOP convention
'THEY'RE SICK': Trump calls out Dems for not applauding pilot
Robert F. Kennedy Jr., Bret Baier, and Martha MacCallum join Hannity in Dallas
Speakers at midterm convention lay out contrast between the GOP and the Democrats
Trump has convention attendees take a pledge
Watters: They don’t care about anything except ‘me, me, me’
Charlie Kirk’s mission was to defend US, inspire young Americans: Turning Point USA contributor
Trump closes first-ever GOP midterm convention with final plea: ‘Go out and vote’
Watters: They don’t care about anything except ‘me, me, me’
The Democrats are getting nervous: Trump
President Trump 'made his message very clear': Inside the GOP midterm convention
JD Vance: The Democrats are the 'party of hatred'
JD Vance has choice words for protester waving Mexican flag
Right Arrow
close
Video
GOP challenger says Hochul's, Dems' ban on ICE cooperation 'written in blood'
Nassau County Executive Bruce Blakeman blasts Gov. Kathy Hochul and New York lawmakers over restrictions on ICE cooperation, arguing the policy will make communities less safe and calling it a "total disgrace." (Credit: WNYW)
NEW
You can now listen to Fox News articles!
New York Gov. 
Kathy Hochul
 faces new legal and political challenges over a law restricting local law enforcement cooperation with ICE after her Republican gubernatorial opponent warned it was "written in the blood" of crime victims.
Nassau County Executive Bruce Blakeman, whose county borders 
sanctuary New York City
, warned more New Yorkers will be hurt by Hochul’s move, pointing to recent cases of people maimed by illegal immigrants.
"I want to be very clear about this law: This law is written in the blood of the victims, past, present and future," Blakeman said.
"This law is completely misguided and will make our communities less safe," Blakeman said. "We have a governor and a legislature [wherein] every major criminal justice initiative makes it easier for criminals to prey on our communities."
DEM GOVERNOR IN THE HOT SEAT AFTER TESTING LIMITS OF AUTHORITY WITH MAJOR MOVE AGAINST ICE
New York Governor Kathy Hochul speaks at a press conference in Manhattan in New York City, Feb. 20, 2025.
(REUTERS/Brendan McDermid)
Blakeman’s warning came as a coalition of 15 sheriffs representing counties from the shore of Lake Champlain to the Massachusetts line filed a lawsuit challenging the ban on 
287(g) ICE agreements
.
His campaign referred Fox News Digital to his remarks when asked for additional comment.
In a memo
 outlining the "Local Cops, Local Crimes Act," Hochul argued that "current federal immigration efforts have made communities less safe" and that using local officers and assets for federal civil immigration enforcement draws resources away from local public-safety functions.
A Hochul spokesperson told Fox News Digital that Blakeman’s "understanding of New York’s bail and immigration laws is incorrect," and said the governor’s top priority remains public safety.
BLAKEMAN CUTS INTO HOCHUL'S NEW YORK GOVERNOR'S RACE LEAD IN NEW POLL, AS LIKELY VOTERS GIVE DSA JUDGMENT
Nassau County Executive Bruce Blakeman, left, and New York Gov. Kathy Hochul.
(NDZ/Star Max/GC Images/Getty Images; Alexander MacDougall/Albany Times Union via Getty Images)
"The Local Cops, Local Crimes Act does not tie the hands of our police or stop them from apprehending dangerous criminals, and local law enforcement can and will continue to work with federal authorities on criminal investigations and violent crime just as they always have," the spokesperson said, adding that the law doesn't prevent cooperation on "ordinary criminal investigations."
EXCLUSIVE: LEGAL GROUP TELLS NYPD COPS THEY CAN CONTACT ICE DIRECTLY DESPITE BLUE CITY'S SANCTUARY RULES
A Homeland Security operation at a New York confectionery arrested 57 illegal immigrants, some with prior convictions, as Gov. Hochul condemned the raid for separating families.
(Spencer Platt/Getty Images and Richard Drew/AP Photo)
Hochul recently signaled she'd enlist 
Attorney General Letitia James
 to take action against counties that do not comply with the law, while quipping that police should not be converging on churches and schools to help "Stephen Miller reach his quotas." Miller is a White House aide credited with crafting much of President Donald Trump's immigration policy.
"We have reviewed this law with the county attorneys and we looked for every possible way not to comply with this law," Blakeman said in his recent remarks. "However, it was concluded that we would have to abide by the law. I am a law-and-order county executive. I believe in the rule of law, even when it's a bad law," he said.
ICE EYES $20M PURCHASE OF ELECTRIC SHOCK GLOVES AS HOCHUL WARNS OF LEGAL CONSEQUENCES
Blakeman said the law makes it harder for police to keep communities safe, pointing to the recent killing of Westchester County resident Sheridan Gorman, which authorities have attributed to an illegal immigrant, while she was attending college in 
sanctuary Chicago
.
Blakeman cited Illinois’ restrictions on state and local participation in federal immigration enforcement as he argued that New York was moving in a similar direction.
Closer to home, Blakeman said an illegal immigrant from Honduras was charged days ago in his county with second-degree rape and endangering the welfare of a 14-year-old.
Rep. Michael Lawler, the Rockland County Republican who has often warred with Hochul, 
tweeted this latest law
 shows she is "the worst governor in America" and "doesn't give a s— about public safety or the rule of law."
Rensselaer County Executive Steve McLaughlin opposed the 287(g) ban before it took effect, calling the agreements "common sense."
McLaughlin, whose Capital Region county is one of the 15 challenging the law, invited Hochul to follow through:
"We don’t really care what this legislature did, we are not going to let them endanger our citizens," he 
told ABC’s Troy affiliate
 in June. "I dare you to confront me on this, governor. We’re not stopping."
Late Thursday, Hochul 
announced a countersuit
 against Rensselaer County’s sheriff for noncompliance.
SIGN UP TO GET THE POLITICS NEWSLETTER
Protestors gather outside the federal immigration center at Delaney Hall, where ICE is housing detained illegal immigrants, on June 3, 2026, in Newark, New Jersey.
(Spencer Platt/Getty Images)
Blakeman said he similarly sought a route to noncompliance, pointing to the recent seizure of dozens of illegal handguns and several kilograms of drugs, as well as one of the "
largest gang takedowns
" in the U.S., which netted 42 gang members in 2025.
CLICK HERE TO DOWNLOAD THE FOX NEWS APP
Blakeman argued Wednesday that ICE involvement allowed authorities to keep some suspects in custody who otherwise might have been released under New York's cashless bail and other laws. The law-and-order debate is also playing out elsewhere on the statewide GOP ticket, where former Brooklyn federal prosecutor Saritha Komatireddy, who is vying against James, 
is in a faceoff over
 criminal justice policies.
Fox News Digital's Kiera McDonald contributed to this report
.
Born and raised in Allentown, Pennsylvania, worked in both the New York and Washington bureaus for Fox News since 2013.
Fox News Politics
Get the latest updates on the Trump administration and Congress, exclusive interviews and more Fox News politics content.
Arrives
Weekdays
By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox News 
        Privacy Policy
 and 
        Terms of Use
, and
      agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can
      opt-out at any time.
      Subscribe
Subscribed
      Subscribe
      You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!
Continue
