SOURCE: https://www.governor.ny.gov/news/keeping-new-yorkers-safe-governor-hochul-announces-local-cops-local-crimes-provision-banning
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-11 (via Chrome; page is JS-walled to curl)
DATED: August 25, 2026, Albany

Keeping New Yorkers Safe: Governor Hochul Announces Local Cops, Local Crimes Provision Banning 287(G) Agreements Takes Effect

New York State's Ban on 287(g) Agreements Focuses Local Law Enforcement on Local Crimes
Ensures That Law Enforcement Resources Are Directed Toward Local Public Safety Priorities Rather Than the Federal Government's Mass Deportation Agenda
Federal Court Previously Denied DOJ's Attempt To Block the Law, Permitting It To Go Into Effect Today
Local Cops, Local Crimes Act Passed as Part of a Comprehensive Package of Immigration Protections To Keep New Yorkers Safe From Federal Overreach

Governor Kathy Hochul today announced that the statewide ban on 287(g) agreements in the Local Cops, Local Crime Act, signed into law in May as part of a comprehensive package of immigration protections, has taken effect. The Local Cops, Local Crimes Act ensures that local law enforcement agencies remain focused on keeping New York communities safe, rather than being used for federal civil immigration enforcement, diverting critical resources to do the job of ICE.

"Here in New York, we need local police focused on keeping our communities safe—not serving as de-facto ICE agents, not conducting civil immigration enforcement, and not carrying out the Trump Administration's callous immigration agenda," Governor Hochul said. "That's why I championed our new law banning 287(g) agreements and ensuring local cops remain focused on real crime in our communities. Starting today, ICE can no longer commandeer locally-funded police to aid an out-of-control federal agency with an $85 billion budget."

Attorney General Letitia James said, "We expect all law enforcement agencies in New York to uphold New York's laws. Through the Office of Immigrant Trust, my office will continue to work with law enforcement professionals across the state to ensure they understand their obligations, and we are prepared to enforce the law if those responsibilities are not upheld. True public safety requires public trust, and we are committed to ensuring all New Yorkers are kept safe."

Prior to 2025, only one of New York's 62 counties had a 287(g) agreement with ICE. To date, 53 counties in New York have never entered into a 287(g) agreement. Of those 53 counties, seven are among the 25 safest communities in America, demonstrating that 287(g) agreements are non-essential to improving safety in New York.

Since taking office, Governor Hochul has invested nearly $4 billion in law enforcement and public safety leading to record low reductions in crime. Ensuring that these resources continue to be used to drive down local crime and keep communities safe is essential to the Governor's core public safety mission.

Section 287(g) agreements allow local officers or employees to engage in or assist with federal civil immigration enforcement or otherwise perform the functions of federal immigration officers, eroding trust between immigrant communities and local institutions, and making residents less likely to report crimes, seek help, or cooperate with law enforcement. The Local Cops, Local Crimes Act prohibits local governments and law enforcement agencies from entering into 287(g) agreements or similar arrangements that use local resources to detain people for federal immigration violations.

Last month, Attorney General Letitia James sent letters to the 12 local law enforcement agencies in New York that had 287(g) agreements with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), informing them that state law requires they unwind the agreements by August 25, 2026. Through the Office of Immigrant Trust (OIT), Attorney General James will ensure that municipalities comply with New York law and that state and local institutions remain focused on protecting and serving New Yorkers.

Following an unprecedented escalation in aggressive federal immigration enforcement, Governor Hochul has been fighting to protect New Yorkers from federal actions that indiscriminately target immigrant communities. Earlier this year, Governor Hochul signed one of the most comprehensive laws in the nation to rein in ICE and prevent federal overreach by:
- Prohibiting local governments, state and local police, and state and local corrections from entering into 287(g) Agreements or similar agreements with the federal government that allow for state and local law enforcement personnel and facilities to be used for civil immigration enforcement purposes;
- Prohibiting state, local, and federal officers from wearing face covering while interacting with the public;
- Establishing a state law under which New Yorkers can bring a lawsuit against federal, state and local government officials for a violation of their constitutional rights;
- Safeguarding interactions with public employees;
- Keeping immigration authorities out of sensitive locations; and
- Ensuring immigrant students can access education, codifying the right to a free public education regardless of immigration status.

In June, the U.S. Department of Justice filed a lawsuit in federal district court seeking to block certain provisions of the Governor's immigration protection laws, including the 287(g) prohibition in the Local Cops, Local Crimes Act. A federal court denied the DOJ's motion for a preliminary injunction for the 287(g) provision of the law permitting the Local Cops, Local Crimes Act ban on 287(g) agreements to take effect today.

[Supporting quotes from State Senators Jackson, Skoufis, Salazar, Fernandez, Gonzalez, Fahy; Assemblymembers McDonald, González-Rojas, Tapia, Romero, Burroughs, Lavine; Albany Police Chief Brendan Cox; Rensselaer County Legislators Fleming, Nichols, Sabo ("There are only 2 of 62 Counties in New York foolish enough to pledge not to follow the law"); Kingston Police Chief Tinti; Tuckahoe Police Chief Rotta; Monroe County Executive Bello; Ulster County Executive Metzger; Westchester County Executive Jenkins; Rochester Mayor Evans; Ithaca Police Chief Kelly ("We appreciate the governor preserving the ability of local police to work collaboratively with federal agencies when addressing criminal matters"). Full text captured in the Chrome session; quotes above are verbatim.]
