SOURCE: https://spectrumlocalnews.com/nys/buffalo/news/2026/08/18/seven-agencies-maintain-agreements-with-ice--despite-state-actions-against-it-
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-11


7 agencies still in agreements with ICE
Open in Our App
Get the best experience and stay connected to your community with our Spectrum News app. 
Learn More
            Open in Spectrum News App
Continue in Browser
State of Politics
Read up on New York politics with our Capital Tonight team.
End Zone Podcast
Want the latest news on the Buffalo Bills? Listen to our Buffalo End Zone podcast with Andy Young and Kevin Carroll.
Traffic Map
Get up-to-date traffic information around the area with our interactive traffic map.
Weather Alerts
View full list of weather alerts.
                    Federal immigration officials lean against a Cayuga County Sheriffs Department vehicle during the raid on Sept. 4, 2025 in Cato. (Emily Kenny/Spectrum News 1)
 -->
7 agencies keep agreements with ICE, despite state actions against it 
BY  
Emily Kenny
Central NY
PUBLISHED 12:45 PM ET Aug. 18, 2026
PUBLISHED 12:45 PM EDT Aug. 18, 2026
SHARE
New York Gov. Kathy Hochul and state Attorney General Letitia James have said local police agencies must dissolve their 287(g) agreements to work with federal immigration agents to abide by a new state law, but seven remain intact, according to the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s website.  
What started with 12 agencies is now down to Broome, Cattaraugus, Nassau, Niagara, Rensselaer and Steuben counties, as well as the Nassau County Police Department.
Hochul’s opponent in the governor’s race, Bruce Blakeman, is the Nassau County executive. Steve McLaughlin, an outspoken critic of Hochul’s who had a terse reply on social media to the state law, is the county executive in Rensselaer.
However, Broome County Sheriff’s Department officials said last week that they are not housing any federal detainees in their jail and that they will abide by state law.  
Madison County Sheriff’s Department is the latest agency to dissolve its agreement, which Cpt. Jonathan Morticelli said was to be in compliance with the Local Cops, Local Crimes Act.
“With that being said, the Madison County Sheriff’s Office will continue to work collaboratively with our local, state and federal partner agencies to include ICE, to ensure that the public safety needs of Madison County are met,” Morticelli said in a statement.  
Madison County Sheriff Todd Hood is the running mate with Blakeman.  
“Unless a crime has been committed, ICE cannot use local cops, their jails, their technology, for civil immigration enforcement,” Hochul said at a press conference last week.  
The state has given law enforcement agencies until Aug. 25 to dissolve their agreements.  
ICE puts out monthly encounter reports as part of the 287(g) agreements, and for the months of July, June and May, the agency reported one encounter for New York. The encounter occurred on June 5, in Cattaraugus County with two individuals from India.  
“The first individual was arrested for grand larceny and scheme to defraud after attempting to solicit $50,000 from an elderly victim. The second individual was encountered with the first but not charged criminally. Both subjects last entered the United States without inspection,” the report said.
