SOURCE FILE: foxnews_com_politics_bombshell_report_exposes_healthcare_fraud_schemes_t.html
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-30 via curl
DATE: 2026-09-29T14:30:00-04:00

This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2026 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by Factset. Powered and implemented by FactSet Digital Solutions. Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by LSEG.

Elon Musk lands new Trump administration role shaping future of American warfare  Trump Pentagon launches competition for America's next great military base  Unearthed clip exposes the Talarico comment that triggered backlash from parents  GOP challenger tears into Dem's 'moderate' image: 'Votes with the squad 90% of the time'  'Drug-dealing' network shielded by blue states targeted in SCOTUS challenge  Blanche announces charges against 10 permanent residents accused of Minnesota voter fraud  Republican glee erupts as White House boasts sharp decline in immigration from Muslim-majority nations  Dems kill Republican's chances of lowering Americans' electricity bills in key election flashpoint  Schumer tanks popular insider trading ban in Dem effort to derail Republican's agenda ahead of midterms  GOP lawmaker’s fraud crusade takes dramatic turn as scandal engulfs his own career  Trump DOJ investigating Dem group in Texas after viral undercover video sparks massive uproar  Explosive sleeper issue could fuel midterm shakeups, top Republican predicts: ‘You’re gonna see surprises’  Secret phone record seizure sparks personal lawsuit from GOP senator  Mamdani’s antisemitism plan draws criticism as rabbis say it avoids key driver of hate  GOP fortress is under threat in one key red state, and these voters could decide whether it falls  Democrats split on AOC as some battleground candidates distance themselves from 'Squad' lawmaker  Senate hopeful's 'treading water' narrative crumbles under $500K campaign payouts to family  Inside the neighborhood living on the edge of America’s tech frontier  Liberal stronghold set to adopt eye-popping minimum wage amid business exodus  US faces another major Middle East troop withdrawal, but threat remains Right Arrow Left Arrow   Interior Secretary Burgum heralds ‘big day’ for the world after Alaska pipeline investment  Vance warns midterm voters: Democrats overtaken by ‘crazy, far-left radicals’  Could Trump's proposed $5K dividend actually become a reality?  Vance warns midterm voters: Democrats overtaken by ‘crazy, far-left radicals’  I can’t imagine what was going on in this cockpit, retired naval aviator says  US withdrawal from Iraq after 23 years and military actions in Iran and Venezuela detailed  Senate subcommittee warns of rogue AI agent cyber attacks targeting government  Tech CEO warns of AI models secretly working against human control  Attack on Dubai-Tel Aviv flight heightens concern over travel abroad  Jeffries vows Democrats will use War Powers to block Trump's conflict with Iran if they win majority  Ohio tops list of states spending most money on midterm campaign ads  Vance: Elect problem solvers, not crazy people  Netanyahu thanks passenger, crew who subdued alleged attacker on FlyDubai flight  Project Meridian launched to study future warfare with Elon Musk, Palmer Luckey, and Newt Gingrich  Vance to Texas voters: Judge James Talarico by his actions  Hero captain in flight attack fighting for his life, says Netanyahu spokesman  Lawler reflects on Sheridan Gorman's killing, rips Dems' sanctuary policies  President Donald J. Trump announces the departure of the last American forces from Iraq  Democratic Senate candidate dismisses bills around inappropriate curriculum as conspiracy-theory driven  Trump expected to address suspected airbase terror plot amid new Iran questions Right Arrow      Politics Bombshell report exposes healthcare fraud schemes as taxpayers lose up to $521 billion annually Malign actors in foreign countries have been caught trying to steal billions of American taxpayer dollars   
      By
      Elizabeth Elkind  Fox News  
      Published
      September 29, 2026 2:30pm EDT  Comments Facebook
             Twitter Threads
             Flipboard Print Email Add Fox News on Google    close      Video  Medicare and Medicaid FRAUD exposed: $1M per minute crisis Rep. Jodey Arrington warns that Medicare and Medicaid fraud is costing taxpayers $1 million every minute. Discussing a joint op-ed with Rep. Blake Moore, Arrington highlights Government Accountability Office figures showing up to $500 billion in annual government-wide losses.

FIRST ON FOX: House GOP lawmakers are rolling out a slew of new bills after a bombshell report found that hundreds of billions of taxpayer dollars are potentially being targeted by fraudsters every year.

As people across the U.S. are battling high costs that make it hard to make ends meet, a report released Tuesday by the House Energy & Commerce Committee warns that federally subsidized healthcare programs are rife with fraud and abuse — "impacting every single American, in one way or another."

While no estimate for Medicare and Medicaid fraud exists specifically, the report noted, a 2024 estimate by the Government Accountability Office said $233 billion to $521 billion taxpayer dollars going to federal programs are lost to fraud every year. Federal healthcare programs accounted for 24% of federal spending in 2024, according to the Center on Budget Policy and Priorities.

Medicaid specifically is rife with vulnerabilities making it susceptible to fraud, the report said, which is why House Republicans are rolling out 14 bills aimed at closing loopholes in the system, shrinking bureaucracy, and making it easier for states to recoup lost dollars while also incentivizing them to go after potential fraudsters.

"Taxpayers that fund benefit programs with federal and state taxpayer dollars are cheated by fraud, inflating healthcare costs that are passed along to everyone," the committee's report states. "Every dollar stolen from federal health care programs is a dollar that is not spent on high quality healthcare for those that need it most."

WHITE HOUSE PUSHES 'WATERSHED' FRAUD-FIGHTING REFORM IN CONGRESS AS VANCE CONVENES TASK FORCE

"The amount of fraud that the Biden-Harris Administration allowed to go unchecked in government health programs is unacceptable. Every dollar stolen by fraudsters or wasted on improper payments is a dollar that cannot be used to support families in need who rely on these programs," House Energy & Commerce Committee Chairman Brett Guthrie, R-Ky., told Fox News Digital.

REPUBLICANS DECLARE WAR ON 'ORGANIZED THEFT' WITH GOVERNMENT FRAUD CRACKDOWN

Republicans' new bills can be lumped into three categories: legislation aimed at improving identification of fraud in state and federal health programs, legislation aimed at enforcing anti-fraud rules, and legislation to hold states that allow fraud to run rampant accountable.

One bill led by Republican Study Committee Chairman August Pfluger, R-Texas, for example, would force states to designate a single role for internal financial controls of state Medicaid programs.

READ: DR. OZ PUTS ALL 50 GOVERNORS ON NOTICE OVER BILLIONS LOST TO MEDICAID FRAUD

A bill by Rep. Mike Rulli, R-Ohio, would force each state to annually report to the federal government on any potential Medicaid fraud vulnerabilities and their plan to fix it.

And legislation by Rep. Nick Langworthy, R-N.Y., would require states to check whether someone enrolling for Medicaid was removed from another taxpayer-funded healthcare program.

The report released on Tuesday said that Medicaid spending accounts for an average 30.7% of states' budgets, and that those outlays have increased exponentially in recent years.

States like New York and California are also projected to see costs spike, the report said.

California and New York are two of the states that have seen ballooning Medicaid-type program spending, the report said. (Sean Rayford/Getty Images; Adam Gray/AP Photo/Bloomberg via Getty Images)

TOP FEDERAL PROSECUTOR CALLS CALIFORNIA A 'FRAUDSTER'S PARADISE,' WARNS STATE OFFICIALS COULD FACE CHARGES

The Golden State is expected to see annual Medi-Cal spending, its state healthcare program, rise from $83 billion per year in 2014 to $219.7 billion by 2027, the report said, adding, "New York is projected to spend 11% more on Medicaid from all funding sources in 2027 — a total of $124 billion."

The report noted that federal healthcare is ripe for fraud given its size and complexity, as well as the traditional enforcement model of "pay and chase," which relies on law enforcement to investigate fraud suspicions after a false claim has already been settled.

Provider fraud is also a common area of losing tax dollars, with healthcare providers being known to submit multiple claims for a single service or bill services and equipment for patients that they have never seen at all, the report said.

Transnational criminal groups have also profited from U.S. healthcare fraud, the report said, alleging that hardworking Americans are seeing their tax dollars not only lost to fraud at home but overseas as well.

TRUMP ADMIN’S FRAUD CRACKDOWN TARGETS FOREIGNERS ACCUSED OF INFILTRATING US FEDERAL PROGRAMS

The Department of Justice's (DOJ) "Operation Gold Rush" uncovered that Russian organized crime actors billed over $10 million in false claims made via 30 medical supply companies they purchased in a years-long scheme, the report said.

It highlighted further foreign healthcare schemes that saw malign actors in Hong Kong, Georgia, Estonia, Pakistan and elsewhere attempt to steal billions more in U.S. taxpayer dollars.

The fraud reports come at a time when millions of Americans across the country are struggling with high living costs that have made it a challenge to make ends meet.

Guthrie said the House GOP legislative package amounted to "commonsense steps" to ensure states can recoup lost fraud dollars and incentivize them to close loopholes in the future.

It comes as the Trump administration is also prioritizing healthcare fraud crackdowns. Vice President JD Vance announced last week that 760,000 enrollees under the Affordable Care Act, also known as ObamaCare, would be removed over fraud claims.

Elizabeth Elkind is a politics reporter for Fox News Digital leading coverage of the House of Representatives. Previous digital bylines seen at Daily Mail and CBS News.

Follow on Twitter at @liz_elkind and send tips to elizabeth.elkind@fox.com

Get the latest updates on the Trump administration and Congress, exclusive interviews and more Fox News politics content.

By entering your email and clicking the Subscribe button, you agree to the Fox News 
        Privacy Policy
       and 
        Terms of Use
      , and
      agree to receive content and promotional communications from Fox News. You understand that you can
      opt-out at any time.

You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2026 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by
        Factset. Powered and implemented by
        FactSet Digital Solutions.
        Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by
        LSEG.