SOURCE FILE: npr_org_2026_09_30_nx_s1_5985806_flydubai_flight_dubai_tel_aviv_israel.html
DATE: 2026-09-30T09:35:11-04:00

Accessibility links   
            Skip to main content
      Keyboard shortcuts for audio player
   


      
         


      
         



    
        
            
                
                    
                    Open Navigation Menu
                
            

            
                
                    
                
            

            

            
                
                    
                      
                        
                      
                      Newsletters
                    
                
            

            

            
                
                
                  
                
                NPR Shop
                
            

            
                
                
                  
                
                Get NPR+
                
            

            
        
    
    
        
            
                
                    
                    Close Navigation Menu
                
            
            
                
                    
                      
                       
                      Home
                      
                    
                
                
                    
                        
                          
                          News
                        
                        
                          
                          
                          Expand/collapse submenu for News
                        
                    

                    
                        National
                        World
                        Politics
                        Business
                        Health
                        Science
                        Climate
                        Race
                    
                
                
                    
                        
                          
                          Culture
                        
                        
                          
                          
                          Expand/collapse submenu for Culture
                        
                    

                    
                        Books
                        Movies
                        Television
                        Pop Culture
                        Food
                        Art & Design 
                        Performing Arts
                        Life Kit
                        Gaming
                    
                
                
                    
                        
                          
                          Music
                        
                        
                          
                          
                          Expand/collapse submenu for Music
                        
                    

                    
    
        Tiny Desk
    

    
        New Music Friday
    

    
        All Songs Considered
    

    
        Music Features
    

    
        Live Sessions
    


                
                
                    
                        
                          
                          Podcasts & Shows
                        
                        
                          
                          
                          Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows
                        
                    

                    
                        Daily
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                    Morning Edition
                                
                            
                            
                                
                                    
                                    Weekend Edition Saturday
                                
                            
                            
                                
                                    
                                    Weekend Edition Sunday
                                
                            
                            
                                
                                    
                                    All Things Considered
                                
                            
                            
                                
                                    
                                    Up First
                                
                            
                            
                                
                                    
                                    Here & Now
                                
                            
                            
                                
                                    
                                    NPR Politics Podcast
                                
                            
                        
                        Featured

                        
    
        
        Wait Wait...Don't Tell Me!
    

    
        
        Fresh Air
    

    
        
        Wild Card with Rachel Martin
    

    
        
        It's Been a Minute
    

    
        
        Embedded
    


                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                    Get NPR+
                                
                            

                            More Podcasts & Shows
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        
                          
                          Search
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        
                          
                          Newsletters
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        
                          
                          NPR Shop
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        
                        
                        Get NPR+
                        
                    
                
                
            
        
    
    
        
            
                
                    
                      
                    
                

                
    
        Tiny Desk
    

    
        New Music Friday
    

    
        All Songs Considered
    

    
        Music Features
    

    
        Live Sessions
    

            
        
    
    
        
            
                About NPR
                Diversity
                Support
                Careers
                Press
                Ethics
            
        
    


      Flydubai pilot stabs another, tries to crash plane full of Israelis   As the plane went into a spin and began to plunge, a passenger and crew members got into the cockpit, subdued the pilot and diverted the flight to land in Saudi Arabia, Israel's leader says.


         

    
        Middle East
    


      A pilot stabs another pilot and tries to crash their flight to Tel Aviv, Israel says
   
   
   




      
            
                  
    
            Updated September 30, 20265:23 PM ET

                
                    Originally published September 30, 20269:35 AM ET
                

                
    

      
      

   
   

   
            
                  
                        
                              By

A plane carrying passengers from an earlier flydubai flight that was diverted to Saudi Arabia arrives at Ben Gurion Airport on Wednesday in Tzafria, Israel. Earlier, their flight from the United Arab Emirates was diverted to Saudi Arabia after a violent altercation in the cockpit. A second plane was sent to Saudi Arabia to retrieve the stranded passengers and return them to Israel.
                
                    
                    Erik Marmor/Getty Images
                    
                
                hide caption

TEL AVIV, Israel, and RIYADH, Saudi Arabia — One pilot stabbed another pilot on a flydubai flight headed to Tel Aviv on Wednesday, and may have tried to crash the plane of mostly Israeli passengers, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said.

Netanyahu said a passenger recounted that as the plane "went into a spin and began to plunge," passengers and crew members got into the cockpit and subdued the attacker as he was "sabotaging the aircraft's systems."

Flydubai said in a statement that an "altercation occurred in the flight deck" of flight FZ 1073, traveling from Dubai, United Arab Emirates, to Tel Aviv. It said the flight crew secured the aircraft and diverted the plane to make an emergency landing at an airport in Tabuk, Saudi Arabia. There were no reports of injuries to passengers.

Passengers who experienced an emergency landing in Saudi Arabia during a flight on flydubai, arrive at Ben Gurion International Airport, near Tel Aviv, Israel, Wednesday.
                
                    
                    Ariel Schalit/AP
                    
                
                hide caption

Netanyahu said the Saudi authorities arrested the suspected attacker and are questioning him. Saudi Arabia did not immediately confirm the arrest, but the Saudi transportation safety authority said officials are investigating the incident.

Middle East conflict 
            The U.S. military withdraws from Iraq over 2 decades after its invasion
         
         

      
      

   
   

   A statement from Cluster2, the Saudi company that manages the country's airports, said the flight's captain and first officer, the co-pilot, were being treated for injuries in a hospital.

Flydubai airline said the motives behind the incident were unknown and remain subject to a formal investigation. The United Arab Emirates' civil aviation authority also said, through the state-run Emirates News Agency, that it is investigating the "causes and circumstances of the incident."

Israeli Defense Minister Israel Katz initially called it "an attempted jihadist terrorist attack," without providing details.

There was no official identification of the suspected attacker.

The Israeli and Indian governments identified the pilot who was attacked as Indian national Smit Machchhar, and praised his bravery.

"Despite being stabbed and seriously injured, he fought back, resisted, opened the cockpit door, and enabled passengers and crew to overpower the attacker — preventing a catastrophic mid-air disaster," Netanyahu said.

The passengers have since been flown from Saudi Arabia to Israel, on a different plane from their earlier flight that had made the emergency landing.

Passengers who experienced an emergency landing in Saudi Arabia during a flydubai flight arrive at Ben Gurion International Airport, near Tel Aviv, Israel, Wednesday.
                
                    
                    Ariel Schalit/AP
                    
                
                hide caption

Israel's Ben Gurion International Airport outside Tel Aviv was full of journalists awaiting the arrival of the passengers. There were also many families, some with balloons and flowers to welcome their loved ones after a scary experience.

The passengers slowly emerged through the arrivals door dragging suitcases behind them, some crying, some smiling, looking relieved or exhausted.

Dan Zoler was traveling with his wife and two small children on the flight. He told NPR that after the pilot was stabbed, he saw three passengers throw themselves on the co-pilot who carried out the attack, and capture him. He said another pilot on the plane took the controls and landed the plane in Saudi Arabia.

Throughout the ordeal, Zoler said he was trying to distract his young son, telling him this is not normal.

"I told him that it's something that happened like once in 25 years. That I want him to be calm. And we are happy to come back," he said smiling, patting his son on the head.

World 
            With Israel-UAE Flight, Israelis And Emiratis Mark Closer Ties As Palestinians Worry
         
         

      
      

   
   

   Flights between Israel and the United Arab Emirates are a main connection for vacationers and happen several times a day. Flydubai said it was suspending its flights to and from Israel while authorities investigate the incident.

This comes at a sensitive political moment in Israel with national elections less than a month away, a vote that will determine whether Netanyahu remains prime minister. He has been campaigning on the notion that he alone can protect Israelis from security threats.

Itay Stern contributed reporting from Tel Aviv.

NPR does not offer or accept money for coverage or interviews.
                Anyone who makes such an offer or request is not an NPR employee and does not represent NPR.