SOURCE: https://www.1199seiu.org/media-center/nearly-40-union-healthcare-workers-notified-jennie-b-richmond-nursing-home-springville-set-close
RETRIEVED: 2026-10-07 via curl

1199SEIU release (May 29, 2026):
 Nearly 40 Union Healthcare Workers Notified That Jennie B Richmond Nursing Home In Springville Set To Close
 May 29, 2026 
 Springville, NY – Today, nearly 40 rural nursing home workers were notified by 1199SEIU that the employer plans to close. Union caregivers learned that New York State Department of Health approved a plan to close Jennie B. Richmond Nursing Home in Springville.
1199SEIU leaders were informed that a closure plan had already been submitted to the New York State Department of Health and that the plan was approved.
“It’s very sad news for the residents, community, and the workers. We are devastated. No one thought this would happen.  Most of us have worked and lived here for a very long time.  These residents are like our family and their families become our families.  Our staff is very caring, very loving, and we are dedicated to our residents. 
 I’m so distraught that my residents must endure a move to another home.  We have so many patients for rehabilitation and they may be transferred an hour away.  Our residents deserve a place to live and the respect and dignity they have earned throughout their lifetime,” said Lucille Schindler, Licensed Practical Nurse. 
Under the Worker Adjustment & Retraining Act[1] or WARN, the employer must provide at least 60 days notice before closing. At this time, 1199SEIU has not received a WARN notice.
“Critical healthcare services for our most vulnerable are being eliminated and jobs may be lost. We will bargain with the employer over effects of this planned closure to protect the rights, benefits, and pay for every worker at the nursing home beginning Thursday June 4. 
These closures are overwhelming for our rural communities. The New York State Department of Health must create a system that does more to protect not only the residents, but the dedicated healthcare workers who care for them,” said Nora Moore, 1199SEIU Administrative Organizer.
Union members at Jennie B. Richmond work as Licensed Practical Nurses, Certified Nurse Assistants, Occupational Therapy Aides, Dietary Aides, Activities Aides, Patient Care Assistants, Housekeeping Aides, and Unit Secretaries. 
 Jennie B. Richmond is an 80-bed facility in rural Springville, New York. 
