SOURCE: https://www.buffalo.edu/news/releases/2025/05/rite-aid-closures.html
RETRIEVED: 2026-10-07 via curl

University at Buffalo news release, May 2025:
 Expert: Rite Aid pharmacies closing will have a ‘monumental negative impact’ on Western New York 
 By Douglas Sitler 
 Release Date: May 8, 2025 
 Share This Print 
 “There will be monumental negative impact on patient care in the Western New York region.”
 Christopher J. Daly, clinical associate professor
 University at Buffalo School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences
 BUFFALO, N.Y. – On the heels of Rite Aid filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on May 5, the harmful effects on patient care in the Western New York region will be severe and widespread, according to a University at Buffalo expert.
 “There will be monumental negative impact on patient care in the Western New York region,” says Christopher J. Daly, PharmD, clinical associate professor at the School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences who specializes in business management and community pharmacy practice.
 About 70 community-based pharmacies with 13 being inner city Buffalo are set to close in the coming weeks. All aspects of health care will feel the loss of these pharmacies, Daly says, with patients, providers, health care systems, displaced pharmacists, and prospective pharmacy students bearing the brunt of Rite Aid’s bankruptcy.
 The following commentary from Daly examines the devastating impact these store closures will have on the health care ecosystem.
 Impact on patients 
 “Patients will be displaced, there will be confusion on next steps – How do I get my medications? – and where to go. They will be lost looking for other pharmacy services that are willing to take them on.”

amNewYork (2025) on Rite Aid second bankruptcy:
 The drug store chain, which has 178 still-open stores in the state, filed for bankruptcy Monday — the second time in two years that the company has filed for relief from its creditors.
 According to Rite Aid, the store will be “pursuing a strategic and value-maximizing sale process for substantially all of its assets,” and will commence voluntary Chapter 11 proceedings in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District of New Jersey. Over the next few months, all Rite Aid distribution centers will close, and all remaining New York stores will either close or be operated by a new owner. 

ANALYST NOTE: no published count of '28 pharmacies' closed in NY-23 was found in any fetched source; the WKBW/ABC7 Rite Aid lists retrieved contained no NY-23 town names (ABC7 list is dated Oct 19, 2023).
