SOURCE: https://www.crfb.org/blogs/congress-wipe-34-trillion-paygo-scorecard
RETRIEVED: 2026-10-07 via curl

CRFB, 'Congress to Wipe $3.4 Trillion from PAYGO Scorecard', 2025-11-12:
 The legislation to end the current government shutdown and temporarily fund the government would also wipe the current statutory PAYGO scorecard , effectively forgiving $3.4 trillion in 10-year borrowing, further eroding budget enforcement, and leaving annual deficits $150 to $200 billion higher than they would be if PAYGO were enforced.
 Every time legislation is enacted that affects mandatory spending or revenue, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) records the legislation’s budgetary effect on the “PAYGO scorecard.” If the scorecard has a positive balance at the end of the year due to the failure to offset new spending or tax cuts, OMB issues a “sequestration” – an across-the-board spending cut to Medicare (limited to 4%) and certain other mandatory sending programs – which takes place at the beginning of the next year.
 Although the PAYGO law has stopped many deficit-financed bills from being considered in the first place, it has not prevented policymakers from adding to the debt. As we’ve explained before , Congress has never allowed the PAYGO sequester to go into effect following an accumulation of deficit-increasing legislation .  Instead, Congress has bypassed the sequester in numerous ways, such as by wiping the scorecard clean as they did after enactment of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act or delaying when the sequester would hit as they did after enactment of the American Rescue Plan.
 As a result of the borrowing under the recently-enacted reconciliation law (the “ One Big Beautiful Bill ”), the PAYGO score card should currently have a balance of around $3.4 trillion. Because the scorecard uses 5-year and 10-year averages of costs, CBO has estimated that OMB would be theoretically required to sequester $415 billion worth of spending. This is larger than the entire sequesterable base, and so the actual cut would be closer to $165 billion – including $45 billion for Medicare and $120 billion for other parts of the budget.
 The government funding bill under consideration in the House would erase the scorecard and thus prevent this sequester. To avoid adding to the debt, a one-year sequester repeal could have been fully offset by adopting site-neutral payments in Medicare or restoring the top tax rate to 39.6% above $1 million of annual income. Notably, Representative Thomas Massie (R-KY) has submitted an amendment that would remove the PAYGO waiver. Unfortunately, it is not scheduled for a vote.
