SOURCE: Velioglu Sogut, Farhadzadeh, Jensen, "Characterizing the Great Lakes marine renewable energy resources: Lake Michigan surge and wave characteristics," Energy (2018), DOI 10.1016/j.energy.2018.03.031. PDF supplied by Zach 2026-10-07; text extracted with pdfplumber.

Characterizing the Great Lakes marine renewable energy resources: Lake Michigan surge and wave characteristics
LeapSpace Journals & Books Help Search My account Sign in
Article preview Recommended articles Cited by (13) Metrics
Research article Get rights and content
Characterizing the Great Lakes marine renewable energy resources: Lake Michigan surge and
wave characteristics
Deniz Velioglu Sogut a , Ali Farhadzadeh a, Robert E. Jensen b Show more
Cite Add to Mendeley Share 10.1016/j.energy.2018.03.031
Access through your organization View Open Manuscript Purchase PDF
Energy
Date: 1 May 2018
Pages: 781-796
Article preview
Volume: Volume 150
Highlights
View accessibility information
Abstract
• The largest storm surge can exceed 1.5 m in Green Bay area.
Introduction
• Utilizing the energy of surge events to generate electricity can alleviate
Published by
flooding. Section snippets
• A total theoretical potential energy of 58 GWh was estimated for a
References (39)
single storm.
• Wave power is highest in October and November.
• The monthly mean wave power reaches up to 9 kW/m.
Abstract
The Great Lakes, Lakes Superior, Michigan, Huron, Erie and Ontario, are a system of
interconnected freshwater lakes located primarily in the upper region of North America
and on the Canada–United States border. Lake Michigan, the second largest in volume and
the third-largest in surface area among the Great Lakes, is approximately 494 km long and
190 km wide. The historical wave data show that significant wave height can reach up to
6 m both in the northern and southern basins. In addition, the long-term lake level data
reveal that storm surges can exceed 1.5 m in Green Bay, one of the shallowest parts of Lake
Michigan. This study characterizes the marine renewable power generation resources
including storm surge and wave for Lake Michigan. It is shown that an extreme surge event
similar to that of January 12, 1975 could contain a total theoretical potential energy of
approximately 58 GWh. The analysis of the lake-wide wave data shows that the monthly
mean wave power is greater in the central and southern basins. Wave power is highest in
October and November, when the monthly mean wave power exceeds 9 kW/m. The
monthly mean wave power is the lowest in late spring and during summer, when it
becomes as low as 1.5 kW/m. As a result, it is found that there is significant potential
marine renewable energy in Lake Michigan that may be suitable for generating meaningful
levels of electricity from storm surges by developing artificial ‘lagoons’ in the shallower
parts of the lake. This study, which follows the recent work on characterizing the Great
Lakes' marine renewable energy resources [1], is the first attempt on characterizing Lake
Michigan's marine renewable energy resources.
Keywords
Great Lakes; Lake Michigan; Marine renewable energy; Wave power; Energy resource
characterization
Previous article in this issue Next article in this issue
Introduction
The demand for energy continues to grow each day and the world population is extremely
dependent on non-renewable energy resources. Most of the energy consumed in the
United States comes from non-renewable energy sources, mostly from the fossil fuels —
coal, natural gas and petroleum. There are limited fossil fuel reserves to meet the world's
energy demands; therefore, more sustainable and less polluting renewable sources of
electricity generation are sought, including hydrokinetic energy [1]. Unlike oceans where
tidal energy is considered a main source of marine renewable energy, large lakes can be
sources for energy contained in waves and storm surges.
It is suggested by the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA) that the available
renewable resources contribute approximately 8% of Michigan State's net electricity
generation [2]. Most of the state's renewable electricity generation comes from wind and
this contribution does not include the energy resources available in the Great Lakes. Lake
Michigan, with a surface area of approximately 58 000 km2, is the third largest of the Great
Lakes by area and the second largest by volume, bordering with States of Wisconsin,
Illinois, Indiana, and Michigan. It is the only lake among the Great Lakes that is located
entirely within the United States.
Offshore wind energy potential of Lake Michigan has attracted some interest among
researchers due to its higher average wind speeds compared to onshore sites and proximity
to population centers and grid connections [3]. In 2005, Michigan Renewable Energy
Program (MREP) estimated Lake Michigan's offshore wind generating capacity as 44 GW
[3].
The hydrokinetic renewable energy resources of Lake Michigan are characterized through
this study. The long-term variations of wave and water level are investigated, the frequency
of occurrences for extreme storm surge and wave events is determined using extreme value
analysis of the long-term water level and wave data and the spatial and temporal variations
of wave height, storm surge and their potential energy are characterized.
This study follows the recently published paper on Lake Erie [1], and is a part of a
comprehensive study aiming at characterizing marine renewable energy resources for the
entire Great Lakes. The present work, in particular, extends the previous work to Lake
Michigan which has a larger surface area and is deeper with a quite different wave, surge
and ice conditions. Additional information concering wind climate is also provided in the
present work.
Organizational access
Get full-text access by signing in with your organisation
Access through your organization
Other access options
View Open Manuscript
Purchase PDF
Need help with access?
Section snippets
Methods
Historical water level data collected at several National Oceanic and Atmospheric Agency's
(NOAA) water level stations were analyzed to identify short-term extreme events (i.e.,
storms). Return period analysis of the extreme events was carried out to determine the
frequency of occurrence of the events. The extreme event analysis also provides
information regarding the magnitude and frequency of occurrence that could be used to
estimate annual energy of storm surge in the lake.
Moreover, to …
Results
The results of the data analyses and numerical modeling are presented in the following
subsections. …
Discussion and conclusions
There are three stages for characterizing the marine renewable energy resource of a region:
(i) theoretical, (ii) technical and (iii) practical resource assessment [1]. In theoretical
resource assessment studies, 100% efficiency is considered and it is assumed that all energy
can be harvested. In technical resource assessments, power curve of a suitable energy
device at a particular place is considered. In practical resource assessments, constraints
such as environmental, navigation and …
Conflicts of interest
The authors declare no conflict of interest. …
Acknowledgements
The authors would like to thank Dr. Norberto C. Nadal-Caraballo and Ms. Debra Green of
the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, ERDC, for providing the storm surge data. …
References (39)
A. Farhadzadeh et al.
Characterizing the Great Lakes hydrokinetic renewable energy resource: lake Erie
wave, surge and seiche characteristics
Energy (2017)
J.C. Dietrich
Modeling hurricane waves and storm surge using integrally-coupled, scalable
computations
Coast Eng (2011)
R. Alamian et al.
Evaluation of technologies for harvesting wave energy in Caspian Sea
Renew Sustain Energy Rev (2014)
U.S. EIA
Electric power monthly
(February 2017)
S. Pryor et al.
Offshore wind energy development in the Great Lakes: a preliminary briefing
paper for the Michigan renewable energy Program
(2005)
A.J. Melby et al.
Wave height and water level variability on Lakes Michigan and St. Clair
(2012)
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Great Lakes Environmental
Research Laboratory, “Historical Ice…
J. Andresen et al.
Historical climate and climate trends in the midwestern USA
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Bathymetry of Lake Michigan,
accessed at:…
R.A. Assel
NOAA Atlas: an electronic Atlas of Great Lakes ice cover, winters: 1973-2002
(2003)
View more references
View full text
Recommended articles
Based on reading popularity
Research article
Probabilistic kernel machines for predictive monitoring of weld residual stress in energy
systems
Miltiadis Alamaniotis, …, Lefteri H. Tsoukalas
Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence • Volume 71 • 2018 • Pages 138-154
Research article
The importance of wave climate forecasting on the decision-making process for nearshore
wave energy exploitation
Alejandro López-Ruiz, …, Miguel Ortega-Sánchez
Applied Energy • Volume 182 • 2016 • Pages 191-203
Research article Open access
Ambient nanoparticles/nanominerals and hazardous elements from coal combustion
activity: Implications on energy challenges and health hazards
Binoy K. Saikia, …, Robert Finkelman
Geoscience Frontiers • Volume 9, Issue 3 • 2018 • Pages 863-875
Research article
Maintenance policies for energy systems subject to complex failure processes and power
purchasing agreement
Qingan Qiu, …, Li Yang
Computers & Industrial Engineering • Volume 119 • 2018 • Pages 193-203
Research article
Analytical formulations to assess the energy dissipated at the base of an offshore wind
turbine jacket impacted by a ship
Timothée Pire, …, Philippe Rigo
Marine Structures • Volume 59 • 2018 • Pages 192-218
Research article
Combined high-power ultrasound and high-pressure homogenization nanoemulsification:
The effect of energy density, oil content and emulsifier type and content
Sonia Calligaris, …, Monica Anese
Food Research International • Volume 107 • 2018 • Pages 700-707
Cited by (13)
Research article
Wave climate on the southwestern coast of Lake Michigan: Perspectives from wave
directionality
Lu B., …, Liu Y.
Ocean Engineering • Volume 343 • 2026 • Article 123306
Show abstract
Research article
Urban pocket-beach morphodynamics along the wave-dominated southwest coast of Lake
Michigan: An analysis of shoreline and sand volumetric changes
Mattheus C.R., …, Santoro J.A.
Journal of Great Lakes Research • Volume 48 • 2022
Citation Excerpt:
…Yet, the effects of punctuated weather events (e.g., storm surges and seiches) superimpose on these
base water levels. Storm surges in parts of Lake Michigan have been shown to exceed 1.5 m (Sogut et
al., 2018). The impacts of ice-shoreline dynamics on coastal morphologic development, particularly
regarding hypothesized lag times for coastal adjustments upon ice breakup, are poorly understood
and thought to be highly location dependent.…
Show abstract
Research article
A novel hydro-kite like energy converter for harnessing both ocean wave and current
energy
Yin X., …, Zhang W.
Energy • Volume 158 • 2018
Citation Excerpt:
…The segments are connected to hydraulic pumps or other converters to generate power as waves
move across. A transformer in the nose of the unit steps up the power-to-line voltage for transmission
to shore [5]. A point absorber is a floating structure with key components that move relative to each
other due to wave actions.…
Show abstract
Machine Learning-Based Forecasting of Metocean Data for Offshore Engineering
Applications
Barooni M., …, Velioglu Sogut D.
Atmosphere • Volume 15 • 2024 • Article 640
Wave Climate Associated With Changing Water Level and Ice Cover in Lake Michigan
Huang C., …, Xue P.
Frontiers in Marine Science • Volume 8 • 2021 • Article 746916
Natural Frequencies of seiches in Lake Chapala
Ávalos-Cueva D., …, Galaviz-Gonzalez J.R.
Scientific Reports • Volume 9 • 2019 • Article 11863
View all citing articles on Scopus
Metrics
Citations
Citation Indexes 13
Captures
Mendeley Readers 21
View details
© 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
About ScienceDirect Remote access Contact and support Terms and conditions Privacy policy Cookie settings
All content on this site: Copyright © 2026 Elsevier B.V., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access
content, the relevant licensing terms apply.