SOURCE: https://baptistnews.com/article/trump-admin-has-admitted-zero-persecuted-christians-this-year/
RETRIEVED: 2026-10-07 via curl
TITLE: Baptist News Global: Trump admin has admitted zero persecuted Christians this year (reporting on World Relief / Open Doors US "State of the Golden Door" report, Sept 2026)
NOTE: Secondary report on an advocacy-group analysis of State Department data; the FY2026 "first year in history" framing is the report authors' projection, not a government statement.

VERBATIM PASSAGE(S):
Trump admin has admitted zero persecuted Christians this year
News Jeff Brumley  |  September 11, 2026
i
Greek Catholic Christians from a local congregation as well as Ukrainian refugees whom most of them are Greek Catholics participate in the mass on Easter Sunday on April 17, 2022, in Litmanova, Slovakia.  (Photo by Zuzana Gogova/Getty Images)
Donald Trump is about to have the distinction of being the first president in possibly 45 years not to permit the resettlement of a persecuted Christian or other religious minority through the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program.
This is from a new report by World Relief and Open Doors US. Since the passage of the Refugee Act of 1980, the United States has embraced 3.7 million refugees at an average rate of 73,500 a year, according to “State of the Golden Door: Evaluating U.S. Refugee Resettlement and Asylum in Light of Global Christian Persecution.”
The Trump administration’s aggressive anti-immigrant and anti-refugee posture has put a huge dent in those trends. The president severely curtailed resettlement during his first term and slashed the ceiling from 125,000 to 7,500 in 2025, then required that most of those had to be white South Africans.
“FY2026 will be the first year in at least a quarter century, and likely in the entire history of the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program, in which persecuted religious minorities have been completely shut out.”
In June, that refugee goal was raised to 17,500 with the same focus on Afrikaners, whom the president considers victims of racial discrimination in South Africa. Refugees have traditionally been considered those fleeing persecution in their home countries, often due to their religion.
“Notwithstanding the hardship that some South Africans have experienced, South Africa is not known to be a country which restricts religious liberty, so any hardship experienced is unlikely to be religiously motivated,” the report says.
Hence, its authors concluded not a single refugee who fled religious persecution has been resettled in the U.S. since at least the beginning of the current fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30.
“Barring a significant change in U.S. policy in the final month of the federal fiscal year, we anticipate that FY2026 will be the first year in at least a quarter century, and likely in the entire history of the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program, in which persecuted religious minorities have been completely shut out,” the authors say.
The suffering caused to persecuted Christians has been immense. According to the report, a recent high of 32,251 Christians were resettled in 2016 but that number fell steadily during the first Trump administration to 5,378. Under President Joe Biden, Christian resettlement surged to 23,361 in 2023 and to 29,478 the following year, before plummeting again under Trump to 9,916 last year and zero this year.
