SOURCE: https://investigativepost.org/2026/08/28/ice-adding-to-detention-center-in-batavia/
RETRIEVED: 2026-10-07 via curl
TITLE: Investigative Post, Aug 28, 2026: ICE adding to detention center in Batavia

VERBATIM PASSAGE(S):
According to a notice on the federal government’s contracting website, ICE plans to hire the Virginia-based firm Akima Infrastructure Protection to construct “a temporary detention structure” to house 100 detainees on the campus of the Batavia facility. ICE’s current detention center has a capacity of 650 but averaged 730 detainees in recent months.
The overcrowding follows a surge in arrests. ICE data through Aug. 5 shows arrests across upstate New York spiked from 788 during President Biden’s last 12 months in office to 6,216 during Trump’s 19 months since returning to Washington. Seventy-two percent arrested during Trump’s time had no criminal record.
The federal notice does not describe what a temporary detention structure entails, but Akima has been hired for similar projects, including a “tent city” for migrants in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
ICE tents have appeared elsewhere, too. A year ago, The Wall Street Journal reported that ICE had “given priority to erecting thousands of tents, or ‘hardened soft-sided facilities,’ as quickly as possible to expand detention capacity quickly at U.S. military bases and adjoining bricks-and-mortar ICE jails.”
In Batavia, the federal government plans to hire Akima as a sole-source contractor and is not conducting a bidding process for the new facility. Akima Infrastructure was also recently awarded the multi-million dollar federal contract to manage the detention facility in a transition from its sister company, Akima Global Services. That agreement runs for a decade. Both firms are subsidiaries of NANA , an Alaskan firm owned by indigenous Alaskans.
ICE justified the lack of bidding by stating in the notice that only Akima could build a temporary facility for migrants “without unacceptable risk to [agency] operations.” ICE is giving companies until 5 p.m. today to file a protest to the no-bid award to Akima.
