SOURCE: https://www.gillibrand.senate.gov/news/press/release/gillibrand-colleagues-demand-answers-about-impact-of-trumps-medicaid-cuts/
RETRIEVED: 2026-10-07 via curl
TITLE: Sen. Gillibrand press release, Jul 1, 2026: Gillibrand, colleagues demand answers about impact of Trump's Medicaid cuts
NOTE: Partisan source; the $112B (CA) / $63B (NY) "by 2034" figures are not attributed to KFF in the release.

VERBATIM PASSAGE(S):
Because of Republicans, New York is facing $63 billion in Medicaid cuts
Today, Ranking Member Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) led her Democratic colleagues on the Senate Aging Committee in demanding answers about the impact of President Trump’s Medicaid cuts on seniors and people with disabilities.
A year ago this week, the president signed into law the One Big Beautiful Bill Act (OBBBA), which slashed Medicaid funding by nearly $1 trillion to give tax breaks to the wealthiest Americans. In a letter to the Government Accountability Office, the senators demanded answers about exactly how these cuts will hurt Americans and about what cuts have already been made.
“When federal funding for Medicaid is cut, states are forced to choose between cutting Medicaid spending or using more state money to maintain existing Medicaid services,” the senators wrote. “Ultimately, Medicaid services for older adults and people with disabilities may be cut, even if federal cuts do not directly target those services.”
According to estimates from the Congressional Budget Office, the cuts will result in 7.5 million more people becoming uninsured by 2034. New York alone is facing $63 billion in Medicaid funding cuts by 2034—the second largest cut in the nation. According to Governor Kathy Hochul’s office , this could cause 1.5 million New Yorkers to lose their health coverage and tens of thousands of New York healthcare professionals to lose their jobs.
Unfortunately, individual states have already discovered that the OBBBA is “making their problems worse.” Early this year, Missouri and Idaho began considering cuts to programs for people with disabilities, while Georgia faces a roughly $8 billion cut in Medicaid funding over the next ten years. Massachusetts approved $1 billion less in state spending than initially proposed for fiscal year 2026 in anticipation of federal cuts. Ohio is “expected to lose about $33 billion over the next decade for its Medicaid program” and is facing the possibility of “additional program cuts.” Arizona is facing a 19 percent reduction to its Medicaid funding, with no clear way for the state to make up for the cut. Maryland is facing a nearly $3 billion drop in annual Medicaid funding, while New Jersey is considering new spending to try to keep as many as 350,000 people from losing coverage. California and New York, meanwhile, are facing Medicaid cuts of $112 billion and $63 billion by 2034 – the largest decreases in the nation.
