SOURCE: https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/BILLS-119hr9340eh/html/BILLS-119hr9340eh.htm
RETRIEVED: 2026-10-07 via curl
---- VERBATIM PASSAGES ----
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
 This Act may be cited as the ``Ratepayer Protection Act''.
SEC. 2. FEDERAL STANDARD RELATING TO LARGE-LOAD CUSTOMERS.
 (a) Federal Standard Relating to Large-load Customers.--Section
111(d) of the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C.
2621(d)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
 ``(22) Standards for large-load customers.--
 ``(A) Recovery of full, incremental cost of
 upgrades.--A rate charged, or entered into, by an
 electric utility for providing electric service to a
 large-load customer shall be designed to recover from
 the large-load customer the full, incremental cost of
 any generation, transmission, or distribution upgrade
 necessary to serve the load of such large-load
 customer, including in the event of such large-load
 customer terminating a contract or other agreement with
 the electric utility pertaining to the sale of electric
 energy, or otherwise ceasing the purchase of electric
 energy from the electric utility.
 ``(B) Financial assurances and contributions.--
 Before making any generation, transmission, or
 distribution upgrade that is necessary to serve the
 load of a large-load customer, an electric utility
 shall require the large-load customer provide to the
 electric utility financial assurances or contributions
 to cover the cost of such upgrade.
 ``(C) Large-load customer defined.--In this
 paragraph, the term `large-load customer' means a non-
 residential electric consumer that, on or after the
 date of the enactment of this paragraph, requests to
 enter into, or enters into, a contract or other
 agreement pertaining to the sale of electric energy for
 one or more facilities that--
 ``(i) require electric energy primarily to
 operate information technology infrastructure
 and related systems pertaining to data storage
 and computational applications and services;
 and
 ``(ii) have, in the aggregate, a peak
 electric demand of 100 megawatts or more at a
 single site or campus.''.
 (b) Conforming Amendments.--
 (1) Obligations to consider and determine.--Section 112 of
 the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C.
 2622) is amended--
 (A) in subsection (b), by adding at the end the
 following:
 ``(9)(A) Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment
 of this paragraph, each State regulatory authority (with
 respect to each electric utility for which the State has
 ratemaking authority) and each nonregulated electric utility
 shall commence consideration under section 111, or set a
 hearing date for consideration, with respect to the standard
 established by paragraph (22) of section 111(d).
 ``(B) Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of
 this paragraph, each State regulatory authority (with respect
 to each electric utility for which the State has ratemaking
 authority) and each nonregulated electric utility shall
 complete the consideration and make the determination under
 section 111 with respect to the standard established by
 paragraph (22) of section 111(d).'';
 (B) in subsection (c)--
 (i) by striking ``subsection (b)(2)'' and
 inserting ``subsection (b)''; and
 (ii) by inserting ``In the case of the
 standard established by paragraph (22) of
 section 111(d), the reference contained in this
 subsection to the date of enactment of this Act
 shall be deemed to be a reference to the date
 of enactment of that paragraph (22).'' after
 ``paragraph (21).''; and
 (C) by adding at the end the following:
 ``(i) Other Prior State Actions.--Subsections (b) and (c) shall not
apply to the standard established by paragraph (22) of section 111(d)
in the case of any electric utility in a State if, before the date of
enactment of this subsection--
 ``(1) the State has implemented for the electric utility
 the standard (or a comparable standard);
 ``(2) the State regulatory authority for the State or the
 relevant nonregulated electric utility has conducted a
 proceeding to consider implementation of the standard (or a
 comparable standard) for the electric utility; or
 ``(3) the State legislature has voted on the implementation
 of the standard (or a comparable standard) for the electric
 utility.''.
 (2) Prior and pending proceedings.--Section 124 of the
 Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2634)
 is amended by adding at the end the following: ``In the case of
 the standard established by paragraph (22) of section 111(d),
 the reference contained in this section to the date of
 enactment of this Act shall be deemed to be a reference to the
 date of enactment of that paragraph (22).''.
 Passed the House of Representatives September 16, 2026.
 Attest:
