SOURCE: https://www.kff.org/global-health-policy/the-trump-administrations-foreign-aid-review-status-of-pepfar/
RETRIEVED: 2026-10-07 via curl
---- VERBATIM PASSAGES ----
Published:
Aug 6, 2026
Starting on the first day of his second term, President Trump issued several executive actions that have fundamentally changed foreign assistance. These included: an executive order which called for a 90-day review of foreign aid; a subsequent “stop-work order” that froze all payments and services for work already underway; the dissolution of USAID, including the reduction of most staff and contractors; and the cancellation of most foreign assistance awards. Although a waiver to allow life-saving humanitarian assistance was issued, it was limited to certain services only and difficult for program implementers to obtain. Since then, responsibility for remaining global health programs has been transferred to the State Department. While there have been several legal challenges to these actions, there has been limited legal remedy to date. As a result, U.S. global health programs were disrupted and, in some cases, ended. Changes to the Department of Health and Human Services, including proposed cuts and reorganization, are also likely to affect these programs. This fact sheet is part of a series on the status of U.S. global health programs.
Prior to the start of the Trump administration, U.S. funding for PEPFAR in FY 2024 was $4.9 billion; funding for the Global Fund was $1.65 billion.
Dissolution of USAID: USAID was the main government implementing agency for PEPFAR, obligating 60% of its bilateral assistance in FY 2023. Without USAID and most of its staff, PEPFAR’s implementation capacity and operations have been affected. In addition, announcements of reductions at CDC, PEPFAR’s second largest implementing agency (obligating 37% in FY 2023), and questions about the stability of CDC’s funding, could further affect PEPFAR.
Reorganization: The administration notified Congress on March 28, 2025, of its intent to permanently dissolve USAID and that any remaining USAID operations would be absorbed by the State Department with global health activities to be integrated into GHSD. On May 29, 2025, the State Department further notified Congress of its proposed reorganization plan, and with the dissolution of USAID, programs moved in July 2025.
Funding: The Trump administration has requested significantly less funding for PEPFAR in its budget requests and canceled funding for numerous HIV-related projects and awards. Despite this, Congress has continued to appropriate funding at or close to prior year levels for PEPFAR, including $4.8 billion in FY 2026. It also appropriated $1.25 billion for the Global Fund in FY 2026.
