SOURCE: https://www.cbp.gov/newsroom/national-media-release/cbp-releases-september-2024-monthly-update
RETRIEVED: 2026-10-07 via curl
NOTE: verbatim passages extracted from the fetched page (text conversion); line refs are to the converted text.

Full Fiscal Year 2024 Statistics Now Available on CBP.gov
WASHINGTON – U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) released operational statistics today for Fiscal Year 2024, including September 2024’s monthly operational update. CBP monthly reporting can be viewed on CBP’s Stats and Summaries webpage.
“During Fiscal Year 2024, CBP significantly increased its enforcement efforts and realized a substantial decrease in southwest border encounters,” said Troy A. Miller, Senior Official Performing the Duties of the Commissioner. “CBP continued to identify and respond to new threats posed by the transnational criminal organizations profiting from the exploitation of vulnerable people, taking unprecedented measures to dismantle and disrupt these operations. We have surged our enforcement efforts to further crack down on the smuggling of illicit opioids, including fentanyl, and implementing new measures to disrupt the supply chain of deadly narcotics.”
Since the June 5 Presidential Proclamation on Securing the Border and accompanying Interim Final Rule, which was finalized Sept. 30 subsequent to an updated Proclamation, went into effect, there has been a continued, meaningful decrease in unlawful border crossings – including a more than 55% decrease in encounters between ports of entry along the southwest border.
...
For the full fiscal year 2024, preliminary data show that DHS completed over 700,000 removals and returns, more than any prior fiscal year since 2010. That includes more removals to countries other than Mexico than in any prior year. DHS has also reduced the time it takes to remove individuals who do not establish a legal basis to remain in the United States by more than half from its historical average. Additionally, the estimated number of migrant gotaways – people who crossed the border without encountering CBP – has decreased approximately 60% from FY 2023 to FY 2024.
On the northern border, CBP’s expanded enforcement efforts reduced Border Patrol encounters by 50% from June to September.
...
The number of U.S. Border Patrol apprehensions between ports of entry in FY 2024 was the lowest it has been since FY 2020, and a 25% decrease from last year. The average number of encounters per month during the last three months of FY 2024 was lower than the average number of encounters per month for all of FY 2019, the last full comparable year before the pandemic.
In September, the U.S. Border Patrol recorded approximately 53,900 encounters between ports of entry along the southwest border. The Border Patrol’s encounters in September were 7% lower than in August 2024 and 75% lower than September 2023. Total southwest border irregular encounters in September, including individuals who presented at ports of entry without previously registering with CBP One, were 58,600. From August to September, the total number of encounters along the southwest border between ports of entry and at ports of entry without a CBP appointment decreased 12% for family unit individuals and 10% for unaccompanied children.
...
