SOURCE: https://democraticleader.house.gov/media/press-releases/house-launches-bipartisan-task-force-artificial-intelligence
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-23


HOUSE LAUNCHES BIPARTISAN TASK FORCE ON ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE | Democratic Leader Hakeem Jeffries
          Skip to main content
HOUSE LAUNCHES BIPARTISAN TASK FORCE ON ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
February 20, 2024 
Press Release
WASHINGTON
 — Speaker Mike Johnson and Democratic Leader Hakeem Jeffries announced the establishment of a bipartisan Task Force on Artificial Intelligence (AI) to explore how Congress can ensure America continues to lead the world in AI innovation while considering guardrails that may be appropriate to safeguard the nation against current and emerging threats.
Speaker Johnson and Leader Jeffries have each appointed twelve members to the Task Force that represent key committees of jurisdiction and will be jointly led by Chair Jay Obernolte (CA-23) and Co-Chair Ted Lieu (CA-36). The Task Force will seek to produce a comprehensive report that will include guiding principles, forward-looking recommendations and bipartisan policy proposals developed in consultation with committees of jurisdiction.
“Because advancements in artificial intelligence have the potential to rapidly transform our economy and our society, it is important for Congress to work in a bipartisan manner to understand and plan for both the promises and the complexities of this transformative technology,” said 
Speaker Mike Johnson.
 “I am happy to announce with Leader Jeffries this new Bipartisan Task Force on Artificial Intelligence to ensure America continues leading in this strategic arena.    
“Led by Rep. Jay Obernolte (R-Ca.) and Rep. Ted Lieu (D-Ca.), the task force will bring together a bipartisan group of Members who have AI expertise and represent the relevant committees of jurisdiction. As we look to the future, Congress must continue to encourage innovation and maintain our country’s competitive edge, protect our national security, and carefully consider what guardrails may be needed to ensure the development of safe and trustworthy technology.”
“Congress has a responsibility to facilitate the promising breakthroughs that artificial intelligence can bring to fruition and ensure that everyday Americans benefit from these advancements in an equitable manner,” said 
Democratic Leader Hakeem Jeffries.
 “That is why I am pleased to join Speaker Johnson in announcing the new Bipartisan Task Force on Artificial Intelligence, led by Rep. Ted Lieu and Rep. Jay Obernolte.” 
“The rise of artificial intelligence also presents a unique set of challenges and certain guardrails must be put in place to protect the American people. Congress needs to work in a bipartisan way to ensure that America continues to lead in this emerging space, while also preventing bad actors from exploiting this evolving technology. The Members appointed to this Task Force bring a wide range of experience and expertise across the committees of jurisdiction and I look forward to working with them to tackle these issues in a bipartisan way.” 
“It is an honor to be entrusted by Speaker Johnson to serve as Chairman of the House Task Force on Artificial Intelligence,” said 
Chair Jay Obernolte (CA-23).
 “As new innovations in AI continue to emerge, Congress and our partners in federal government must keep up. House Republicans and Democrats will work together to create a comprehensive report detailing the regulatory standards and congressional actions needed to both protect consumers and foster continued investment and innovation in AI.”
“The United States has led the world in the development of advanced AI, and we must work to ensure that AI realizes its tremendous potential to improve the lives of people across our country. I look forward to working with Co-Chair Ted Lieu and the rest of the Task Force on this critical bipartisan effort.”
“Thank you to Leader Jeffries and Speaker Johnson for establishing this bipartisan House Task Force on Artificial intelligence. AI has the capability of changing our lives as we know it. The question is how to ensure AI benefits society instead of harming us. As a recovering Computer Science major, I know this will not be an easy or quick or one-time task, but I believe Congress has an essential role to play in the future of AI. I have been heartened to see so many Members of Congress of all political persuasions agree,” said 
Co-Chair Ted Lieu (CA-36).
“I am honored to join Congressman Jay Obernolte in leading this Task Force on AI, and honored to work with the bipartisan Members on the Task Force. I look forward to engaging with Members of both the Democratic Caucus and Republican Conference, as well as the Senate, to find meaningful, bipartisan solutions with regards to AI.”
Membership
Rep. Ted Lieu (CA-36), 
Co-Chair
Rep. Anna Eshoo (CA-16)
Rep. Yvette Clarke (NY-09)
Rep. Bill Foster (IL-11)
Rep. Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01)
Rep. Ami Bera (CA-06)
Rep. Don Beyer (VA-08)
Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14)
Rep. Haley Stevens (MI-11)
Rep. Sara Jacobs (CA-51)
Rep. Valerie Foushee (NC-04)
Rep. Brittany Pettersen (CO-07)
Rep. Jay Obernolte (CA-23), 
Chair
Rep. Darrell Issa (CA-48)
Rep. French Hill (AR-02)
Rep. Michael Cloud (TX-27)
Rep. Neal Dunn (FL-02)
Rep. Ben Cline (VA-06)
Rep. Kat Cammack (FL-03)
Rep. Scott Franklin (FL-18)
Rep. Michelle Steel (CA-45)
Rep. Eric Burlison (MO-07)
Rep. Laurel Lee (FL-15)
Rep. Rich McCormick (GA-06)
Press Releases
LEADER JEFFRIES IN THE CAPITOL: "HOUSE DEMOCRATS ARE RUNNING TOWARD THE FINISH LINE AND REPUBLICANS ARE RUNNING SCARED"
48 minutes ago
LEADER JEFFRIES STATEMENT ON THE RISE OF ANTI-SOUTH ASIAN HATE
4 days ago
Instagram
View this profile on Instagram
Hakeem Jeffries
 (@
hakeemjeffries
) • Instagram photos and videos
