SOURCE: https://obernolte.house.gov/media/press-releases/house-bipartisan-task-force-artificial-intelligence-delivers-report
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-23


House Bipartisan Task Force on Artificial Intelligence Delivers Report | Representative Jay Obernolte
          Skip to main content
2433 Rayburn House Office Building, Washington, DC 20515
Email Me
202-225-5861
Subscribe
      Image    
House Bipartisan Task Force on Artificial Intelligence Delivers Report
      Image    
December 17, 2024 
Press Release
WASHINGTON
 — Today, Speaker Mike Johnson and Democratic Leader Hakeem Jeffries received the comprehensive report and key findings produced by the bipartisan House Task Force on Artificial Intelligence. Developed in consultation with committees of jurisdiction, the report includes guiding principles and forward-looking recommendations that may be appropriate to advance America’s leadership in AI innovation responsibly.
“Because advancements in artificial intelligence have the potential to rapidly transform our economy and national security, Leader Jeffries and I established the Bipartisan Task Force on Artificial Intelligence to ensure America continues leading in this strategic arena. Developing a bipartisan vision for AI adoption, innovation, and governance is no easy task, but a necessary one as we look to the future of AI and ensure Americans see real benefits from this technology,” 
said
Speaker Mike Johnson
. “Thanks to the leadership of the Task Force Co-Chairs Jay Obernolte and Ted Lieu and the hard work of all the Members involved, Congress has a better understanding of how to leverage the promises and navigate the complexities of this transformative technology.”
“The development and safe adoption of artificial intelligence holds great promise to make a positive difference in the lives of the American people, and Congress has an important role in bringing these benefits to fruition. At the same time, we must ensure that appropriate guardrails are in place to prevent bad actors from exploiting this transformative technology,” 
said Democratic Leader Hakeem Jeffries
. “The Members of the Bipartisan Task Force on Artificial Intelligence worked hard over the past year developing a report that is serious, sober and substantive in nature. I’m encouraged by the completion of the report and hopeful it will be instructive for enlightened legislative action moving forward. I’m thankful for the partnership of Speaker Johnson, the leadership of Reps. Ted Lieu and Jay Obernolte and the entire Task Force for coming together to produce a bipartisan path forward.”
“It has been my honor to lead the House AI Task Force in producing this detailed, forward-thinking, and bipartisan report.  It is our hope that this report will inform the Congress and the American people on the advantages, complexities, and risks of artificial intelligence
,” said Chairman Jay Obernolte (R-Ca.)
. “The report details a roadmap for Congress to follow to both safeguard consumers and foster continued U.S. investment and innovation in AI. I’d like to thank Co-Chair Lieu, Speaker Johnson, Leader Jeffries, and all of our AI Task Force members for their hard work this year. I am confident that this report will be an essential tool for crafting AI policy that protects Americans, spurs innovation, and secures American leadership in this revolutionary technology.”
“The bipartisan House AI Task Force report provides a foundation both to ensure that America leads in AI innovation and to ensure that we have appropriate guardrails to protect Americans. This substantive report is the result of conversations with experts, extensive research, and analysis among Task Force members and will hopefully serve as a starting point to tackle pressing issues involving artificial intelligence. Collaborating across party lines to find consensus is not easy, and that is especially true for something as far-reaching and complex as AI,” 
said Co-Chair Ted Lieu (D-Ca.)
. “Despite the wide spectrum of political views of Members on our Task Force, we created a report that reflects our shared vision for a future where we protect people and champion American innovation. We have made our best efforts based on the information we have, but with the rapid pace of change in both AI software and hardware, we are fully aware that we don’t know what we don’t know. This initial report is only the first step. I am grateful to work alongside my friend, Jay Obernolte, on this important effort and for the trust that Speaker Johnson and Leader Jeffries put in our Task Force. I also want to recognize all the tremendous staff work that went into running the Task Force and creating our report.”
Read the full report and key findings 
here
.
Read what they're saying about the report 
here
. 
Background
In February, Speaker Mike Johnson and Democratic Leader Hakeem Jeffries 
announced
 the establishment of a bipartisan Task Force on Artificial Intelligence (AI) to explore how Congress can ensure America continues to lead the world in AI innovation while considering guardrails that may be appropriate to safeguard the nation against current and emerging threats.
Speaker Johnson and Leader Jeffries each appointed twelve members to the Task Force that represent key committees of jurisdiction and jointly led by Chairman Jay Obernolte (R-Ca.) and Co-Chair Ted Lieu (D-Ca.). 
Membership 
Rep. Jay Obernolte (CA-23), 
Chair
Rep. Ted Lieu (CA-36), 
Co-Chair
Rep. Darrell Issa (CA-48)
Rep. Anna Eshoo (CA-16)
Rep. French Hill (AR-02)
Rep. Yvette Clarke (NY-09)
Rep. Michael Cloud (TX-27)
Rep. Bill Foster (IL-11)
Rep. Neal Dunn (FL-02)
Rep. Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01)
Rep. Ben Cline (VA-06)
Rep. Ami Bera (CA-06)
Rep. Kat Cammack (FL-03)
Rep. Don Beyer (VA-08)
Rep. Scott Franklin (FL-18)
Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14)
Rep. Michelle Steel (CA-45)
Rep. Haley Stevens (MI-11)
Rep. Eric Burlison (MO-07)
Rep. Sara Jacobs (CA-51)
Rep. Laurel Lee (FL-15)
Rep. Valerie Foushee (NC-04)
Rep. Rich McCormick (GA-06)
Rep. Brittany Pettersen (CO-07)
###
      Issues
:
Technology
