SOURCE: https://obernolte.house.gov/media/press-releases/obernolte-trahan-release-discussion-draft-great-american-ai-act
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-23


Obernolte, Trahan release a discussion draft of the Great American AI Act | Representative Jay Obernolte
          Skip to main content
2433 Rayburn House Office Building, Washington, DC 20515
Email Me
202-225-5861
Subscribe
      Image    
Obernolte, Trahan release a discussion draft of the Great American AI Act 
      Image    
June 4, 2026 
Press Release
Today, Congressman Jay Obernolte (R-CA) and Congresswoman Lori Trahan (D-MA) released a discussion draft of the Great American AI Act, bipartisan legislation to create a federal framework for how the United States governs artificial intelligence.
The discussion draft is intended to solicit feedback from stakeholders, experts, and the public before the bill is formally introduced. It is the result of bipartisan collaboration between the two members to ensure the United States can govern AI effectively, protect Americans from emerging risks, and continue to lead the world in AI innovation.
The discussion draft is supported by Congressman Scott Franklin (R-FL), Congressman Suhas Subramanyam (D-VA), Congresswoman Erin Houchin (R-IN), and Congressman Scott Peters (D-CA) who joined in releasing the proposal for public feedback.
“Artificial intelligence is advancing rapidly, which is why Congress must take a thoughtful and bipartisan approach to regulating this critical technology
,” said Congressman Jay Obernolte (CA-23)
. “This discussion draft is an important step toward building a clear federal framework that promotes innovation, protects Americans from emerging risks, and ensures the United States continues to lead the world in AI. We are releasing this draft to hear from stakeholders, experts, and the public so we can strengthen the legislation before it is formally introduced.”
“The threats AI poses to our national security, our safety, and our workforce are here and growing by the day. This bipartisan framework is designed to meet the challenges posed by this rapidly advancing technology without smothering American innovation. It protects workers, establishes real accountability for the most powerful frontier systems, and positions the United States to set the global standard on AI,” 
said Congresswoman Lori Trahan (MA-03).
 “This discussion draft is the product of ongoing bipartisan conversations, which we hope to build upon with input from workers, researchers, stakeholders, and members of the public, all of whom have an interest in getting this right.”
"Artificial intelligence is already transforming our economy, our national security and the way Americans live and work," 
said Congressman Scott Franklin (FL-18). 
" Congress has a responsibility to establish clear rules of the road that encourage innovation while ensuring this technology is developed responsibly. The Great American AI Act builds on the bipartisan House AI Task Force and represents an important step toward greater transparency and accountability for advanced AI systems. This discussion draft will help gather feedback from relevant stakeholders as we work toward a practical legislative framework that keeps America at the forefront of AI innovation. I've already begun laying the groundwork through efforts like securing additional funding for the Center for AI Standards and Innovation through the FY27 Appropriations process, ensuring the federal government has the tools and expertise needed to keep pace with this rapidly evolving technology. I appreciate Policy Chair Obernolte's leadership and look forward to introducing this bill in the House.”
“AI is already changing how we work, live, and learn. We need a plan to protect our national security and workforce. I want the United States to continue to be a leader in AI race but develop this technology in a responsible manner that protects people and communities. To do so, we must get a bipartisan conversation started and work faster to address the challenges and opportunities presented by AI,” 
said Congressman Suhas Subramanyam (VA-10).
"America should lead the world in artificial intelligence, not regulate ourselves into falling behind China through a patchwork of fifty different state laws,” 
said Congresswoman Erin Houchin (IN-09).
 “That approach would make it harder for American companies to innovate and compete while doing little to improve consumer protections. This bill creates a clear national standard for how AI models are developed while preserving the ability of states and parents to protect children. It strikes the right balance between innovation and consumer protection and ensures Congress remains engaged as this technology continues to evolve."
“I am thankful to Rep. Trahan and Rep. Obernolte for their leadership on this critical issue,” 
said Congressman Scott Peters (CA-50).
 “This discussion draft will not address all of the issues our businesses and families will face, but it is an encouraging first step toward the bipartisan legislation needed to keep pace with the rapid advancement of AI. I really want to hear how the people affected feel about it.”
You can find the discussion draft text 
here
.
You can find the section-by-section summary of the discussion draft 
here
.
You can read Congressman Obernolte’s and Congresswoman Trahan’s op-ed 
here
. 
###
      Issues
:
Technology
