SOURCE FILE: post_journal_com_news_local_news_2025_08_absolut_in_westfield_closing_it.html
DATE: ?

Another nursing home is closing its doors in Chautauqua County.

On Tuesday morning, the Living Legends group confirmed with "deep sadness" that Absolut Care in Westfield will be closing in the fall. "This decision was not made lightly, and we want to assure our residents, families, employees, and the community that every effort was made to avoid this outcome," a spokeswoman for the group said.

Officials, over the past several months, said they have been actively negotiating with the landlord in hopes of renewing its lease on the property at 26 Cass St. "Unfortunately, despite our best efforts, irreconcilable differences prevented us from reaching an agreement. Because of this uncertainty, we delayed making any announcements until negotiations were complete, as we strive to communicate transparently with our employees and residents," officials said.

Employees were told about the closing on Monday afternoon. Becky Shioleno, a 13-year employee for the facility, said the decision will impact around 75 employees.

"It's a lot of crying and devastation," she said.

Living Legends includes the McGuire Group, Absolut Care, Taconic Health Care and Vestracare and is based in Buffalo. Officials there said they "are committed to providing a seamless transition for our residents" through open and ongoing communication with them and their loved ones.

"Our team will provide information to residents and their families about other local facilities, including several of our own sister communities, ensuring that the wishes of our current residents are respected when placement decisions are made, and ensuring that concerns such as geographic location, availability of/access to public transportation, type of facility/provider, ability to meet the residents' medical and behavioral health needs, are addressed in identifying future placement options for residents," the group said.

Additionally, Living Legends said it would be assisting employees through the transition through job fairs and open positions at other locations within the group.

"This was not an easy decision, and we recognize the impact it has on our residents, families, employees, and the broader community," the group said. "We worked tirelessly to prevent this closure and remain committed to supporting everyone affected with compassion, respect, and integrity."

Employees also will receive incentives to stay at Westfield throughout the transition.

"I think a majority want to stay in health care, they just don't know where to go at this point because they're still so shocked," Shioleno said.

Since 2023, at least two other nursing homes in Chautauqua County have closed. They include the WCA Home in Fredonia and the Lutheran Social Services location in Jamestown.

PO Box 3386, Jamestown, NY 14702 - Copyright © Post Journal