SOURCE FILE: wellsvillesun_com_blog_2026_02_02_retirement_announcement_best_wishes_to.html
DATE: 2026-02-02T18:21:56+00:00

Home » Retirement Announcement: Best Wishes to Dr. Zahi Kassas and Monica Acomb, PNP

Dr. Zahi Kassas has announced that he is officially closing his general Pediatrics practice, which has faithfully served the needs of children in the Wellsville area for over 25 years. As of May 1, Dr. Kassas will transition to a more limited role. He will be providing hospital pediatric services and caring for a select population of complex pediatric patients.

Jones Memorial will also say goodbye to Monica Acomb, PNP, who has assisted Dr. Kassas for over 25 years at the Bradley Building location in Wellsville, working closely with families, attending to sick visits, and caring for our community. She has dedicated 32 years to the healthcare field, including time as an RN at Jones. She will retire on May 1. Throughout her career, Monica has been a trusted, steady presence for generations of patients, leaving a lasting legacy of compassion, commitment, and heartfelt care in the community she proudly served.

Dr. Kassas and Monica have been working with local families in our region together for over 25 years. Their team has assisted hundreds of families both here at the hospital and through their private practice through some of life’s most memorable moments. They have been an integral part of the pediatrics team.

“We are deeply grateful for Dr. Kassas and Monica’s years of dedication and service to our hospital and this community,” said Carrie Walker, VP of Professional Services at Jones Memorial. “Their contributions have had an immeasurable impact on this community, through their practice alone, and we wish them the best as they transition toward retirement and part-time care.”

Throughout his career, Dr. Kassas has been a dedicated leader, community minded provider and physician. In addition to serving the community as a provider, Dr. Kassas served as the chief of staff from 2019-2020. He was also Chief of Pediatrics during this time, serving from 2016 – 2025. Always willing to represent the associates at Jones, Dr. Kassas has served on numerous committees at the hospital and is a trusted community leader, serving as the Chief of the Allegany County Board of Health, of which he is currently still a member. Dr. Kassas is passionate about continuing education and has served as the Neonatal Resuscitation Program Instructor as well as the clinical instructor to multiple colleges and universities in the Rochester, Buffalo and Olean areas. Dr. Kassas was the recipient of the prestigious NYS Rural Physician of the Year award in 2022 and was recognized for his passion for teaching the next generation with numerous teaching awards from the University of Buffalo Family Residency Program in 2023 and 2024.

Dr. Kassas’ compassionate approach to care and kindness have made him a favorite among patients and a trusted leader among his colleagues. We are grateful for his leadership and legacy in primary care and pediatrics and look forward to the impact that he will have in the hospital setting.

For more information or if you have questions regarding this transition, please call the administration office at 585-596-2051. To share your patient stories or to express congratulations to Dr. Kassas or Monica, feel free to email JMH-WeCare@URMC.rochester.edu.

Jones Memorial Hospital (JMH), located in beautiful southwestern New York State, is a CMS 4-star quality rated, 49-bed acute care facility serving all of Allegany County, as well as western Steuben County and northern Potter County, PA. Truly a community hospital, JMH is committed to continuously raising quality and safety to higher levels and providing top quality healthcare in a hometown community setting. Jones Memorial is accredited by The Joint Commission and is a Forbes Top Hospital for 2026.

Francis Robert “Bob” Cawley, 77, Hornell

Valentine’s Dinner at the Wellsville Country Club