
Rogers Park, Chicago shooting: New details about Jose Medina, suspect in death of Sheridan Gorman, Loyola student shot and killed - ABC7 Chicago
24/7 Live
Chicago & Suburban Cook Co.
North Suburbs
West Suburbs
South Suburbs
NW Indiana
 fatal shooting
Prosecutors reveal new details about Loyola student's killing, suspect's criminal history
Jose Medina's pretrial detention hearing was postponed as police say he is being treated for tuberculosis at a local hospital.
By
Stephanie Wade
, 
Maher Kawash
, 
Eric Horng
, 
Lissette Nuñez 
Tuesday, March 24, 2026
Jose Medina's pretrial detention hearing has been postponed as police say he is still at Illinois Masonic Hospital, being treated for tuberculosis.
WLS
CHICAGO (WLS) -- 
Jose Medina's pretrial detention hearing has been postponed as police say he is still at Illinois Masonic Hospital, being treated for tuberculosis.
Monday's hearing revealed new details about 
the shooting
 he allegedly carried out last week, as well as his criminal history. Meanwhile, local and federal officials say Medina should not have been free on the streets of Chicago.
ABC7 Chicago is now streaming 24/7. Click here to watch
The Department of Homeland Security says 25-year-old Medina is an undocumented immigrant. He is facing felony charges of first-degree murder and aggravated use of a firearm.
Police say Medina allegedly shot and killed Sheridan Gorman, a Loyola University freshman who was walking in Rogers Park with a group of friends early Thursday.
"Tom and Jessica... the parents of Sheridan are taking this very hard. Tom said to me on the phone, you know, 'Every parent says that their kid is the best in the world, but mine was,'" said Archdiocese of Chicago Cardinal Blase Cupich.
DHS says Medina has allegedly been living in the country illegally after entering it in 2023. President Donald Trump shared his thoughts on the matter on Monday.
"It's devastating. These people were let in by Biden. We're getting them out. We're getting them out fast. That's why ICE is so important. They're doing such a good job," Trump said.
DHS says Medina remained in Chicago despite being arrested by Border Patrol in 2023. Chicago police later arrested him again in that same year for retail theft charges at a Macy's store in the city.
SEE ALSO |
Loyola student murder leads to new friction point over state's sanctuary policies
Court records show Medina failed to appear for those charges, and that's when an arrest warrant was issued.
An attorney representing Gorman's family said in a statement, in part, "We are gravely disappointed by the policies and failures that allowed this individual to remain in a position to commit this crime... When systems fail -- whether through release decisions, lack of coordination, or unwillingness to act -- the consequences are not abstract. They are real. And in our case, they are permanent."
DHS has now 
filed an ICE arrest detainer
, hoping to place Medina in their custody, so he can be deported. But local officials say he needs to face felony charges in Chicago first.
"This person has to held accountable to the highest extent of the law, which in his case, because he is here illegally, would require him, at some point, to be deported, either to fulfill his sentence or after fulfilling his sentence," said Illinois Comptroller Susana Mendoza.
Prosecutors say Medina was hiding near the pier where Gorman and her friends were walking early Thursday.
Top Stories
Christa Pike asked 'Where am I?' upon regaining consciousness after botched execution: Attorney
14-year-old struck by stray bullet on North Side paralyzed; suspect charged with attempted murder
Faith Hedgepeth: Murder trial begins for Miguel Salguero-Olivares accused of killing NC UNC student in 2012
17 minutes ago
Witnesses told police that they were suspicious of a man hiding there. An arrest report says witnesses saw Medina walking "with a very distinct and slow gait."
When the group of friends came upon Medina, who wore a mask and all black clothing, he allegedly fired shots as they ran.
Gorman, who is from New York, was shot in the back and died from her injuries.
After tracking surveillance video, police say, Medina was arrested at his home near North Sheridan Road, just a couple of blocks from the scene.
There, a lobby camera captured him without a mask, and after investigators used facial recognition software, U.S. Customs and Border Protection records returned a match for the Venezuelan national, the arrest report said.
Inside Medina's apartment, officers allegedly found the clothing he was allegedly wearing during the shooting and a 40-caliber handgun that matched the shell casings found at the scene.
An attorney representing Gorman's family says they are grateful for the quick work of police, and that this is the first step toward justice for the 18-year-old.
Illinois Gov. JB Pritzker's office issued a statement, saying, "Our thoughts are with the family, friends, and Loyola University community grieving the senseless murder of Sheridan Gorman. Violent crime has no place in our streets, and we expect the alleged perpetrator to be held accountable to the fullest extent of the law. The Trump Administration needs to stop politicizing heinous tragedies and instead focus on real solutions, like reinstating federal funds to prevent violence that support our public safety efforts."
Ald. Ray Lopez, who represents the city's 15th Ward, was in court on Monday. He says this tragedy could have been avoided.
"Because we refuse to amend our laws in a way that makes sense while still allowing us to open up our communities to those who want to be here, who want to make our city and state and country better, a life has been taken," Lopez said.
Medina is due back in court on Friday morning as long as doctors approve his release from the hospital.
Gorman's family said they do not want this to be just another case that fades from public attention. Her life mattered, they said, and what happened to her matters.
INTERACTIVE SAFETY TRACKER  
Track crime and safety in your neighborhood
Report a correction or typo
Copyright © 2026 WLS-TV. All Rights Reserved.
Related Topics
 CHICAGO
 ROGERS PARK
 FATAL SHOOTING
 CHICAGO SHOOTING
 CHICAGO CRIME
 WOMAN SHOT
 WOMAN KILLED
 CHICAGO VIOLENCE
 GUN VIOLENCE
 DEADLY SHOOTING
 SHOOTING
 SHOTS FIRED
 STUDENT DIES
 MURDER
 IMMIGRATION
 DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
 ICE
 ARREST
Fatal Shooting
Army sets date for Fort Hood mass shooter Nidal Hasan to face firing squad
Pentagon to execute convicted Fort Hood mass shooter Nidal Hasan by firing squad
Chicago woman charged in deadly Oak Brook mall shooting: police
2 killed, 35 injured in Georgia block party shootings
Watch Live
ON NOW
Top Stories
Christa Pike asked 'Where am I?' after waking up after botched execution: Lawyer
Teen struck by stray bullet on North Side paralyzed; suspect charged
LIVE: Faith Hedgepeth murder trial; Day 2 of witness testimonies
17 minutes ago
Hurricane Isaias is expected to get stronger on its way to Gulf coast
1 hour ago
4 astronauts return to Earth after 8 months in space
10 minutes ago
Mizzou football player undergoes successful heart transplant surgery, coach says
1 hour ago
Pritzker declares Illinois a diesel disaster area, fuel retailers wary
Man charged in attack on woman in Arlington Heights
1 hour ago
Topics
Home
Weather
Traffic
Watch
Photos
Apps
Regions
Chicago & Suburban Cook Co.
North Suburbs
West Suburbs
South Suburbs
NW Indiana
More Content
Local News
U.S. & World
I-Team
Politics
Entertainment
Consumer & Business
Company
About ABC7 Chicago
ABC7 Newsteam Bios
Community Journalism
TV Listings
Accessibility
Employment
Contests, Promotions & Rules
Community
Privacy Policy
Your Privacy Choices
Children's Privacy Policy
Your US State Privacy Rights
Terms of Use
Interest-Based Ads
Public Inspection File
FCC Applications
Copyright © 
2026 ABC, Inc., WLS-TV Chicago. All Rights Reserved.
    