
Sunday Night in America With Trey Gowdy : FOXNEWSW : October 4, 2026 9:00pm-10:00pm PDT : Free Borrow & Streaming : Internet Archive
Skip to main content
Hamburger icon
An icon used to represent a menu that can be
                toggled by interacting with this icon.
Internet Archive logo
A line drawing of the Internet Archive headquarters
                building façade.
Web icon
An illustration of a computer
                            application window
Wayback Machine
Texts icon
An illustration of an open book.
Texts
Video icon
An illustration of two cells of a film
                            strip.
Video
Audio icon
An illustration of an audio speaker.
Audio
Software icon
An illustration of a 3.5" floppy
                            disk.
Software
Images icon
An illustration of two photographs.
Images
Donate icon
An illustration of a heart shape
Donate
Ellipses icon
An illustration of text ellipses.
More
Donate icon
An illustration of a heart shape
"Donate to the archive"
User icon
An illustration of a person's head and chest.
Sign up
                  |
Log in
Upload icon
An illustration of a horizontal line over an up
                pointing arrow.
Upload
Search icon
An illustration of a magnifying glass.
Internet Archive Audio
Live Music
                    Archive
Librivox
                    Free Audio
Featured
All Audio
Grateful Dead
Netlabels
Old Time Radio
78 RPMs
                        and Cylinder Recordings
Top
Audio Books
                        & Poetry
Computers,
                        Technology and Science
Music, Arts
                        & Culture
News &
                        Public Affairs
Spirituality
                        & Religion
Podcasts
Radio News
                        Archive
Images
Metropolitan Museum
Cleveland
                    Museum of Art
Featured
All Images
Flickr Commons
Occupy Wall
                        Street Flickr
Cover Art
USGS Maps
Top
NASA Images
Solar System
                        Collection
Ames Research
                        Center
Software
Internet
                    Arcade
Console Living Room
Featured
All Software
Old School
                        Emulation
MS-DOS Games
Historical
                        Software
Classic PC
                        Games
Software
                        Library
Top
Kodi
                        Archive and Support File
Vintage
                        Software
APK
MS-DOS
CD-ROM
                        Software
CD-ROM
                        Software Library
Software Sites
Tucows
                        Software Library
Shareware
                        CD-ROMs
Software
                        Capsules Compilation
CD-ROM Images
ZX Spectrum
DOOM Level CD
Texts
Open Library
American
                    Libraries
Featured
All Texts
Smithsonian
                        Libraries
FEDLINK (US)
Genealogy
Lincoln
                        Collection
Top
American
                        Libraries
Canadian
                        Libraries
Universal
                        Library
Project
                        Gutenberg
Children's
                        Library
Biodiversity
                        Heritage Library
Books by
                        Language
Folkscanomy
Government Documents
Video
TV News
Understanding
                    9/11
Featured
All Video
Prelinger
                        Archives
Democracy Now!
Occupy Wall
                        Street
TV NSA Clip
                        Library
Top
Animation
                        & Cartoons
Arts & Music
Computers
                        & Technology
Cultural
                        & Academic Films
Ephemeral Films
Movies
News &
                        Public Affairs
Spirituality
                        & Religion
Sports Videos
Television
Videogame
                        Videos
Vlogs
Youth Media
                          Search the history of more than 
1 trillion
web pages
.
Search the Wayback Machine
Search icon
An illustration of a magnifying
                                glass.
Mobile Apps
Wayback Machine (iOS)
Wayback Machine (Android)
Browser Extensions
Chrome
Firefox
Safari
Edge
Archive-It Subscription
Explore the Collections
Learn More
Build Collections
Save Page Now
Capture a web page as it appears now for use as a trusted
                          citation in the future.
Enter a URL to save
Please enter a valid web address
About
Blog
Events
Projects
Help
Donate
Contact
Jobs
Volunteer
Sign up for free
Log in
About
Blog
Events
Projects
Help
Donate
Donate icon
An illustration of a heart shape
Contact
Jobs
Volunteer
tv
        Sunday Night in America With Trey Gowdy  FOX News  October 4, 2026 9:00pm-10:00pm PDT      
      9:00 pm    
            americans because you are doing exactly what you said needs to be done and that is to inspire the american people this country is their country and i think this book does exactly that. it's a beautifully written book and it's called so order called so ordered, our current originalists view of the constitutional court and our country. mr. justice i want to thank you for writing it and giving us the time to be here to talk to you. >> thank you very much mark. it's been a pleasure. >> we "life, liberty & levin." ♪ ♪ >> good evening thank you for joining us. i'm trey gowdy and it's "sunday night in america." federal judges have unique powers and jobs for life and in exchange they surrender overtly political acts. there were rules on what they           
      9:01 pm    
            can and cannot say and do an and judges know that before they accept a new appointed to the bench. at the top of the list of things judges cannot and should not do would be comment on matters pending before them or make political statements. most do not talk to reporters that all and especially not reporters writing hit pieces on elected officials. federal judges in minnesota have forgotten all of this. >> the comments are not only overtly political, itself a violation but also concern matters pending before these judges in the appellate process, separate violations. >> if you want to go into politics take off the robe get off the golf course, give up the life tenure and run. good judges are fair and if they can be fair they at least try to fake it. if judges believe the party is ignoring court orders hold the parting contempt.           
      9:02 pm    
            what they cannot do is jeopardize the fragile state of the judicial branch by sounding like a dsa candidate. more time sentencing in less time pontificating about politics. that's a good rule of thumb. joining us is acting deputy a.g. thanks for being here. i'm not used to judges speaking to reporters about political issues or pending cases at the judges in south carolina would never do that, never. >> trey that makes two of us could have been practicing for almost 20 years now and i've never seen judges do something like this. the former chief judge in minnesota and to be clear he still hears cases. he is not chief judge anymore. he made comments on the record saying the department of homeland security wants to turn the united states into north korea. this is a party that's in front of them every single day. most judges avoid the media like the plague. they know comes with all sorts           
      9:03 pm    
            of ethical problems. no one could possibly think that this judge would give dhs a fair shake going forward. >> the other thing i can't wrap my head around judges have plenty of remedies at their disposal. they can issue an order and they can clearly write out an ad order what they think and impose sanctions. when the world but they air their grievances to the left-leaning reporters? and that's the million-dollar question. to be honest part of it is the issue that got from these judges so up this one of my lost phone on appeal for the eighth circuit held that we were right on the legal issue in the district judges were wrong so they realize they don't have any remedies available. how to they have left is to run to the press. >> in theory they could take seniors to run for congress if you want to do that although           
      9:04 pm    
            retirement for the judges pretty good. let's you and i and on a different note. i won't say happier but it's certainly different. tell us about doj's angel grant program. >> i spent the better part of today's and the attorney general meeting with families of victims of open border policies. these are people with families that have been killed by illegal aliens in the country and families whose children have been killed by overdose deaths and the attorney general announced these angel grant, $25 million available in the next few weeks. we hope people and local law enforcement will apply within the next 16 days. they can can get up if i were a thousand dollars in and the main benefit in the point of it all is law enforcement will get federal dollars to help them fight all the repercussions of open borders and illegal narcotics. >> we have parents coming up right after you who lost a loved           
      9:05 pm    
            one to one who should not up in this country and the question that i struggle with the most in their backgrounds are similar although you rose to higher levels than i ever rose to, the question i struggled with is why was this person allowed to remain in the country? why was this person not deported and you will either get asked that question or you've been asked and it's impossible because you aren't the one who decided to let it happen. there gets truly outrageous. when you hear the stories from these parents, these are folks that committed the crimes and they've been in the country for years. they have rap sheets and thought like all of a sudden i surprisingly killed someone. they probably have violent arrests and it's almost always in sanctuary cities. they get arrested and they get immediately released and to be honest it is difficult to talk to these families because they've been through so much and i praise them for willing to           
      9:06 pm    
            tell their stories are everyone and listening to one of these mothers i think it would change anyone's mind. >> there's nothing in the world quite like eyewitness testimony we will hear from two parents. there's nothing more compelling but we want to hear from you because you are the daggett the doj and we thank you for your service to our country and for joining us on this sunday night. >> thanks trey. and in the spring of life is to the greatest gift of all, time and use. time and youth are no match for a bullet for politicians to prioritize criminals over college -- he was in our country unlawfully and committed other offenses. why was he allowed to stay? we should ask the political leaders who put criminal aliens ahead of college girls walking down the street. why was he allowed to stay here           
      9:07 pm    
            even after additional criminal allegations? people have to ask those who support it, i would not ask the grieving parents of the dead teenager. they did not make these decisions. they are just living and dying with the consequences of those decisions. jessica and tom foreman join us now. i do not have the words to adequately convey my sympathy to you. before we talk about her death i really want to celebrate her life. for both of you can you tell us about sheraton? >> sheridan was extraordinary. she was like any other american teenager. she was funny and she just was so endearing. she didn't make friends but she collected them from every group. whoever she met with a friend. she deeply value the people and value them at every level.           
      9:08 pm    
            she was loyal and true and she was a teenager. she was not perfect but she was our life. she was literally our joy. i imagine she was just like every other 18 year olds. she was not a great driver. she loved animals. she loved her sister. she loves school. she was an athlete and above all she just loves people. one of the things i said at the congressional hearing was she loved extravagant things. she was not perfect but her heart was nearly perfect. >> tom has anyone given you an answer to the hardest question of all? why was this defendant accused of murdering your daughter allowed to come into and remain in this country?           
      9:09 pm    
            >> we had never received an adjective that trey. obviously during the fight administration supporters were wide-open but a lot of people coming across were given court appearances with immigration and understand 34% have ailed to appear to those court proceedings. he appears to be one of those 34% but didn't show up and he did not have an asylum claim in this country. he made his way to chicago and was arrested for another crime because of chicago's sanctuary policies, he was let free. the sanctuary policies, maybe they were intended to protect the community grid at this time they are not protecting the community. they are protecting these criminals. when someone commits a crime and is apprehended by local police, the safest place for federal agents to do their job is at the           
      9:10 pm    
            jail during booking or at the courthouse. not in the streets but at those secure locations. hand them over to federal officials and allow them to do their job and it's no longer a fiscal burden to the state and local communities feedback and someone's child lives. >> i can comprehend it and work as double down on the sanctuary policies and the calculus has changed. nearly 20 million unembedded immigrants came across the border to risk increase. that was an opportunity to reassess these policies. these policies, you can't judge a policy by its intent or tv to judge it based on its outcome. the outcome is. >> we are going to double down on hearing this explanation to           
      9:11 pm    
            all those politicians that support open borders in sanctuary cities. ms. gorman i want you to tell them what it's like to hold the cold lifeless hand of a child for the last time a child killed because of their policies. tell me what that feels like. >> i actually didn't hold her hand. i couldn't. tom did. >> there's nothing worse than having to go to a coroner's office and identify the body. i struggle every day to escape it. we will fight so that no other parent has to deal with this. this is just another talking point for a lot of our good government officials and community members but but this s our life. we have to deal with this every day. what did they do when i held her           
      9:12 pm    
            hand? i apologized to her. i apologize that the country she loves her and i pray to god that i would have been in a body bag instead of her. >> 100 times over. i would have taken anyone's place. >> it is indeed a life sentence for both of you and i used to do this for a living but i can tell you, every one of these cases absolutely breaks your heart because you see this vibrant life that had so much future ahead of them and it struck down because of nothing in the world that she did. it is very it's me and it breaks my heart and it breaks my heart to hear both of you. i will continue to be thinking of you but the most important thing we can do is no more parents like you by ending these policies. thank you for sharing your grief with us and hopefully will           
      9:13 pm    
            motivate the people who have had to hold the hand of a child no longer with us. >> god bless you. >> thank you very much. ai is here to stay in canada the controls are well a control is? congressman mccormick is next. if you're frustrated with occasional bloating or gas, your body's giving you signs. it's time to try align. the number one doctor recommended probiotic brand developed by gastroenterologists to help soothe occasional digestive upsets. when you feel the digestive signs, try align.           
      9:14 pm    
            the crisis inside ukraine has reached a catastrophic level with the elderly jews pushed to the very limit. go inside! she's freezing cold! there's no electricy no heat, no water. winter is now a weapon of war used against the elderly the mothers and the young children. they've been lined up here for hours. these are precious people who are hungry. they have nothing! if someone doesn't do something soon a humanitarian disaster is coming! so many jewish people so many jewish people who are just waiting. waiting for someone to care enough to pick up the phone. fears are growing that without an emergency full-scale response thousands will die this winter.           
      9:15 pm    
            the international fellowship of christians and jews needs your $25 gift now i to help rush a winter survival food box of emergency food for elderly jews and families in ukraine. time is critical. please give now. they've felt the shaking of missiles. these are people who have already endured so much suffering and disaster. the fellowship has been here and across the former soviet union for decades. but the need has never been more urgent. taken out power. taken out water. simple water to drink. we're talking about the difference between life or death! christian; jew, standing shoulder to shoulder saying we're here to heal; we're here to help. your gift of only $25 helps rush a winter survival food box filled with life-saving emergency food for elderly jews and families in ukraine           
      9:16 pm    
            who are struggling daily to stay warm and fed. please call or go online while there is still time. yes! i actually won! see this? it just arrived from dealdash. a nintendo switch 2. look what i just won. i love dealdash. with millions of auctions, you too can start winning like this. i got this amazing japanese knife set for just 75 cents. i got this kitchenaid stand mixer for only $56. and today, new users get a $50 bonus credit. go to dealdash.com right now for huge savings and free shipping from our u.s. warehouses.           
      9:17 pm    
      9:18 pm    
            welcome back to "sunday night in america" but artificial intelligence remains in the news. we hear these stories about ai ending the human race and the stories are juxtaposed with stories about curing disease and solving intractable problems.           
      9:19 pm    
            is it possible ai is like other technology inherently benign but what we do with it determines whether the outcome is good or otherwise. we got to thread a small needle. ai cannot be stopped but the question is can it be harnessed? can we trust aib jars to police themselves quick dr. rich mccormick represents george and joins us now. we'll come congressman. let's start with the good news if there is good news. what are the potential good parts of ai especially from a medical standpoint? me from a medical standpoint we are coming up with cancer cures and new medications. chemicals and peptides all kinds of things that will help humans with not only longer but better. it will help people not get alzheimer's and dementia and it could cure als some of the scariest disease in the world that they can help cure untreatable disease in the past           
      9:20 pm    
            they can be cured now but think about technology. people should be scared of what it does and get down the talk about world orders and you are worried about what they'll come up with being -- imagine being in world war ii and other countries are coming up with nuclear arms. can you not imagine building nuclear arms or self? it can be used to counter weaponized and that's important to the future of america. >> it may well be our modern-day manhattan project grade i have to confess my bias i like andrew ferguson ahead of the present day are working group and ethical persuasive. that said the messaging on ai today is centered on data centers in the apocalypse. it's hard to win either of those debates and the ai leaders i've got to be honest with you i'd           
      9:21 pm    
            rather talk to the rain to the ai leaders. they are not winning this debate so someone has to help them. how would you tell them to do it because it's about data centers in the apocalypse. you aren't going to win that. >> first of all like i just said the best of you have against the apocalypse of ai is to counter apocalypse by ai. you have to have protection against the best weapon centers. when it comes to data centers the communities that are building data centers are being shown, there's the energy consumption is offset by the price point that these people paid for by law. they have to offset in a positive way. your energy consumption -- consumption would drop. it's going to pay for your taxes and prevent schools -- have           
      9:22 pm    
            better schools and better teachers. i think you'll be competing with military bases but when it and will benefit from it and eventually the couple of years i think this is something that we have the fbi investigations on. and before i let you go some of the same folks and not all but some of the same folks involved in ai also are on social media which some would argue has gotten out of control. billionaires who are making money off of ai and how can they harness it for the greater good or does there have to be governmental oversight? >> this is the greatest question of all.           
      9:23 pm    
            i believe having billionaires want to billionaires. the accountability between different companies you have seven layers of integrity to. of other companies watching each other because ai will do the best job for each other. someone else told to kabul for the government is not the technology or the resources and do it itself. spend thank you for your service to our country and thank you for joining us on this sunday night. this issue is not going anywhere so thank you for loaning us your expertise and we will see you soon. >> my pleasure. >> take care. coming up the present is campaigning to keep republicans in the majority come november. how is it looking? he j           
      9:24 pm    
            every small-business owner has a monster to-do list. you could help.           
      9:25 pm    
            ♪♪ "get a quote." progressive makes it easy to get a quick commercial-auto quote online so you can get back to all your other to-dos. sorry. that one's mine. see if you can save money at progressivecommercial.com. ♪ always discreet. ♪ bladder leak? mhmm. i've been there, so i trust always discreet. now i never miss a moment of any of my son's games. well, all right! hey, i use always discreet, too! protect the moment. always discreet. with the vinted app, megan turns her closet into cash. she easily sells the clothes she doesn't wear anymore. and with no selling fees, every dollar is hers. it's extra cash she can spend on her next fancy dinner. bonsoir megan. download vinted today. before i found hone health, i was struggling. no energy. no sex drive. and gaining weight. hone tested over 40 biomarkers and built a treatment plan just for me.           
      9:26 pm    
            now i've got back my energy, focus, and lost weight. get started at honehealth.com/tv. for plant-based healthy blood pressure support, there's one brand that stands above the rest. it's humann, the maker of superbeets. the only beet brand trusted by more cardiologists for four years running. save up to 40% off on amazon prime day. even the toughest cowboys get heartburn. but i don't fool around with silly antacids. i ride with rolaids max strength, 1500 milligrams of acid           
      9:27 pm    
            neutralizing power for serious relief. am i a cowboy now? no. rolaids spells relief. what if your shipping and logistics ran as one smart system, even during peak season? shipstation's intelligent platform helps you ship faster, regardless of spikes in orders. don't wait for peak season chaos. switch today at shipstation.com the power of painquil liquid now comes in a liquicap. for maximum strength, liquid power pain relief. rapid release painquil liquicaps. painquill strong, liquicap speed. the aches, pain, strains, head-pounding, back aching, fights pain fast, medicine.           
      9:28 pm    
      9:29 pm    
            to "sunday night in america." the president is on the road crisscrossing the nation to bolster republicans in dozens of races than the united states of america will never be a communist country. [cheers and applause] we did not come all this way and           
      9:30 pm    
            defeat all of those dangers only to watch our country be taken over by people. they are sick people. there something wrong with these people. just get out and vote. if you do that we will win and we will win big. >> could politicians have an offensive in the defensive gain? tell the voters what your agenda is and will be and remind voters what the other side will do if they win. brandon gill joins us now. welcome congressman. it's good to see you. it looks to those of us outside of texas like the texas senate race is close or maybe paxton is down. why would that be? >> i think we still have more education that we need to do to make sure voters know who ken paxton descent who james talarico is. we talk a lot of thought james talarico and how he wants to turn federal buildings into abortion clinics and how he thinks there are six genders and           
      9:31 pm    
            that genders and the goddess nonbinary and he has an obsession with trans kids and he believes christianity how he has contempt for christianity. all the things that he say no worries trying to act like a moderate or disingenuous. on the other hand ken paxton who hand ken paxton who is been the single greatest attorney general in our country. this is somebody who has sued multiple companies and one billions of dollars on behalf of the people of texas against opioid makers. against big tech and companies that are abusing texans. this is someone who has sued 130 different cities in the state to stop them from raising property taxes and $110 million from texas children's hospital when they tried to bill medicaid for transgender surgeries for young kids. the contrast could be more clear and we continue to get the message out so people from texas know who they are voting for here.           
      9:32 pm    
            >> brandon you do a better job of defending ken paxton and ken paxton does. is it too late to put you on the ballot? >> or it let me move on. democrats will investigate and impeach donald trump impeach donald trump for a third time if they retake the house. you know that an aisle that. what would republicans investigate if you hold the house? you are on that committee and you may chair that committee one day. what do you want to investigate? >> i'd like to continue with james comer who chairs the oversight committee has done a phenomenal job for them going after sanctuary cities and sanctuary states who are harboring illegal alien criminals. the task force that i'm sharing on the oversight committee we have been doing quite a bit of work recently going after states who are allowing medicaid programs to be defrauded and you saw the front that happen in minnesota with medicaid fraud and in ohio you see similarities but i like to protect facts --           
      9:33 pm    
            taxpayer dollars and continue going after the abuses of the biden administration and people like jack smith who went after the present and when after his family and his administration. i've done so oftentimes with impunity. they need to be held accountable and we can do that through the house oversight committee. >> random i love your state. for years in way go and i barely made it out but i did make it out. diesel is high and it matters in an ag state like texas and gas prices matter everywhere. what realistically can congress do about fuel prices? >> the first thing i would say is the iranian war is a temporary lift in fuel prices at the look of what the other side of the aisle wants to do as a matter of policy democrats want to hamstring domestic energy production. they killed or tried to kill the           
      9:34 pm    
            keystone xl pipeline they've been running james talarico is then talking about moving away from fossil fuels. what we want to do is implement policies like permitting reform and we did that in the big beautiful bill. there's more that we can do now we'd like to see america's domestic energy production thrive. that will allow us to keep gas prices down. long term regardless of what the geopolitical system looks like. that is if we can get republicans in control and to maintain control of the house and the senate and the presidency so we can get those reforms passed. >> brandon before i let you go you are smart young man. i see this pulling in the populism is rising in both parties. if i were to ask you to give me the elevator pitch for the difference between populism and conservatism in let's assume we are in a 12 story building in the elevator.           
      9:35 pm    
            what is the difference between the two in your judgment? >> conservatives want to conserve this country and to recognize we have a specific culture and heritage that we love and we want to continue to thrive. we want our kids and grandkids to have the same opportunities that we have. what you see with left-wing populism is i think this move to fundamentally upend american society in america's system of governance is the factor when i hear democrats running for instance on the platform of the very defending local police departments are reopening our border or of abolishing the u.s. supreme court. it's fundamentally motivated by for america. that's something that conservatives reject. >> brandon gill from the great state of texas, thank you for joining us on the sunday night. we'll see you soon. >> thanks for having me. >> three years ago was israel's           
      9:36 pm    
            9/11. israeli ambassador reflects on that day and the consequences which followed. you asked me that three times already! i did? this is exactly how it started with mom. worried about your brain health? cerefolin brain wellness has a dual-action formula that slows cognitive decline while improving memory, focus, and concentration. those taking cerefolin brain wellness experienced a slower rate of brain shrinkage. now also available without a prescription at cerefolin.com and amazon. it changed my mind. neurologist recommended. cerefolin brain wellness. mom: all i ever wanted to be was a mom. maddox was eight days old when he got diagnosed. when the doctor came out, he said, your child has cancer. and the rest, (voice breaking) i don't know what he said because i don't remember. that initial shock is a lot. he has a very aggressive cancer of the eyes.           
      9:37 pm    
            if it wasn't for st. jude, my boy might not have a chance. narrator: st. jude children's research hospital works day after day to find cures and save the lives of children with cancer and other life-threatening diseases. mom: childhood cancer, it's not fair. having hope is, at times, all you have. narrator: you can join the battle to save lives by supporting st. jude children's research hospital. families never receive a bill from st. jude for treatment, travel, housing, or food so they can focus on helping their child live. mom: i'm grateful for the people that donate to st. jude. to have a sense of hope for our children to be able to get through this and to be strong. [singing "happy birthday"] narrator: join with your credit or debit card for only $19 a month, and we'll send you this st. jude t-shirt.           
      9:38 pm    
            you can proudly wear to show your support. mom: every person that donates is giving her a chance to live. child: i love dad. mom: [speaking spanish] mom: we're all here for one reason, and it's to get our kids well so that we're all able to go back home. narrator: your support helps st. jude give kids with cancer a chance. please donate now. [theme jingle] what will you do when the power goes out? power outages can be unpredictable and inconvenient, but with a generac home standby generator, your life goes on uninterrupted because you'll have power when you need it the most. special financing and low monthly payment options are available, and if you call now, you will also receive           
      9:39 pm    
            a free five year warranty valued at over $500. call or go online now to request your free quote. power your life with generac. california's community health clinics are already buried in regulation. prop 44 will only make it worse. it puts politicians between patients and their doctors and lets them dictate the care clinics can provide. hurting millions of patients and funneling billions of tax dollars into a new state bureaucracy, cutting care and driving up costs. don't let politicians control your care. don't let hundreds of community health clinics close. vote no on 44. ♪♪ if you're on medicare... and you get this... you could end up with this... unexpected out-of-pocket costs.           
      9:40 pm    
            so if you're on medicare, or soon to be... consider this. an aarp medicare supplement insurance plan from unitedhealthcare. medicare alone doesn't pay for everything. medicare supplement plans help by paying some of what medicare doesn't... and making your out-of-pocket costs more predictable. call unitedhealthcare now and ask for your free decision guide. these plans come along with a gym membership at no additional cost, with access to a national network of fitness locations. medicare supplement plans also let you see any doctor, any specialist, anywhere in the u.s. who accepts medicare and medicare patients. take charge of your health care today. call unitedhealthcare about an aarp medicare supplement plan. ♪           
      9:41 pm    
            welcome back to "sunday night in america." wednesday march 3 years since hamas attacked israel killing over 1000 people including women and children in kidnapping nearly 250 people who were used as bargaining chips. israel does not believe in proportionate response but israel believes in sending a message. if you attack us, you will work reddit for decades to come. and yet threats abound in the region from a nuclear iran to stabbing a copilot midflight. like the bravery put on display by americans 25 years ago, it was passengers who intervened and overpowered the attacker and avoided catastrophe. investigators are still trying to determine a motive but honestly you don't have to be dr. freud to figure out the motive. of jewish people is the culture. it's guns and missiles and planes in the middle east and           
      9:42 pm    
            america to podcasts and social media. israel's ambassador to the u.n. joins us now. welcome mr. ambassador. i'm pretty sure i know the motive. the iran a copilot want to kill people accused of being supporter of the state but it does give you a motive. how is that wrong? >> thank you for having me today. when we realized supporting the pilot and the israelis have prevented 9/11 terror attack. now we have more information about these terrorists and we realized he was planning to crash the plane either at the israili airport or at an american base in jordan.           
      9:43 pm    
            to create a much bigger terror attack and we are happy it didn't happen. we have to learn lessons. we have to keep them out of the cockpit and understand how come they food is run airlines are hiring them to fly those planes? >> ambassador i want us to stay here for second because elites from what i read and you can tell me if i'm wrong he was fired from one airline because he and he was hired by another. how is that not disqualifying for every airline and how does that happen with? >> unfortunately i don't have the mechanism to coordinate that in the investigation said that for an airline that flew to tel aviv. he planned for years this terror attack and to join this airline because he wanted to fly to tel aviv. he did with israel before           
      9:44 pm    
            predicted pictures and they planned it very carefully and as i said earlier it's a miracle that the outcome that all of the passengers are safe and we want to be thankful for him for his bravery. he allowed the passengers to get into the cockpit. >> mr. ambassador les -- let me ask a hard question for is raising its head again in pockets of both political parties of america. we are neighbor 100 years on the holocaust and people are seeking power and might of the expense of the phrase never again this seems to be happening again. >> anti-semitism is all over. we hope people will understand           
      9:45 pm    
            we are fighting evil but look what happened the day after the attack they are marching in the streets of new york against hamas and against israel and today we look at the numbers today and you will see its only against. you look at the u.s. and you have the jewish community in the u.s. 2% of the general population and the number of hate crimes 66% of hate crimes in the u.s. are against. we need more than statements and declarations. we have to take actions against those who would spread hate. they equate the hamas terrorists to the victim of october 7. >> they gave you a tough task is they made you sit at the u.n. and listen to people who hate america and hate.           
      9:46 pm    
            those in particular would be hard to listen to. thank you for joining us on the sunday night. we'll see you soon. >> thank you trey. >> take care patry criminal cases are making headlines and prosecutor tells us what we need to know about all of them, next. it looks like an ordinary staircase, but as you age with occasional nerve discomfort that can feel like stabbing or pins and needles in your hands and feet, sometimes stairs can bring worry. as a retired doctor, now that i am older myself, i take nervive. nervive nerve relief has ala to start reducing occasional nerve discomfort in 7 days. getting older happens, but living with occasional nerve discomfort doesn't have to. try nervive like i did — and get your freedom back. feel alive with nervive!           
      9:47 pm    
            every small business owner has a monster to-do list. and as your business grows, it grows. ♪♪ that's fair. progressive makes it easy to get a quick commercial auto quote online, so you can get back to all your other to-dos. see if you can save money at progressivecommercial.com.           
      9:48 pm    
            yes! i actually won! see this? it just arrived from dealdash. a nintendo switch 2. look what i just won. i love dealdash. with millions of auctions, you too can start winning like this. i got this amazing japanese knife set for just 75 cents. i got this kitchenaid stand mixer for only $56. and today, new users get a $50 bonus credit. go to           
      9:49 pm    
            dealdash.com right now for huge savings and free shipping from our u.s. warehouses. if you're frustrated with occasional bloating or gas, your body's giving you signs. it's time to try align. the number one doctor recommended probiotic brand developed by gastroenterologists to help soothe occasional digestive upsets. when you feel the digestive signs, try align.           
      9:50 pm    
      9:51 pm    
            welcome back to "sunday night in america." time has been with us since -- we are tracking three high-profile cases lindsay clancy's first trial resulted in a barely hung jury. prosecutors need a better theory of the case and probably a very different type of jury. at cornell university the spotlight is also prosecutors after they declined to indict a raped case two years ago. governor kathy hochul removed the local d.a. and put a.g. letitia james in charge but buts young woman deserves a thorough investigation over allegations and if the case can be proven she should be taken to trial. cases are challenging to prosecute. this victim deserves a prosecutor who knows what she or he is doing. letitia james if you're wondering is a criminal defense attorney by background. has she ever handled a case?           
      9:52 pm    
            this isn't the time for on-the-job training. questions remain and toxicology has not been released in the deaths of two students to the culprit kratom known as gas station heroin because you can literally buy it over-the-counter at a gas station. joining us cohost of the prosecutor's podcast but will come out and prosecutor but and prosecutor. it's good to see you. let's start with the cornell case. why was this case not handled properly two years ago? >> that's a difficult question to answer because of course when it comes to raped case is so much depends on what the victim says. the victim's original statement is different to what she's alleging now. that is common to raped allegations but that certainly a reason that things were handled differently two years ago. whether that was mishandled or not is something we should look           
      9:53 pm    
            into. but we have to look at changing allegations when we look at an investigation. >> before relief cornell, raped cases are really hard. i had good prosecutors that works in my office and handle those. letitia james has never handled a sexual-assault case. why in the world would he pick someone who's never handled a rap -- a rape case? it's difficult to prove evidence especially new york where you have a law that makes it difficult to bring a case where someone is alleging rape if they voluntarily took and intoxicant. we have letitia james who's recently been appointed to handle this case for the governors able to do that of course is letitia james is the attorney general and seize the lead prosecutor for the state.           
      9:54 pm    
            with that said it's a very different set of skills to prosecute a case than it is to defend a criminal case. she has to make sure due process is looked after here that everything is checked perfectly and in the worst case scenario of course is the ghost or an investigation in a case to be proven by this overturned because the mishandling of the investigation or the prosecution there's no justice for the victim or no justice for the defendants. >> i'm not sure if letitia james , she's been a defense attorney or whole life. we'll move on to lindsay clancy. rusiecki jars need a coherent theory of the case but i had my doubts on whether they could do it and yet there are still three tiny crosses remaining in the massachusetts cemetery. is there any way to go from 11 to one in favor to anything           
      9:55 pm    
            resembling a conviction? >> i i think your tax rewrite. the prosecution had a rocky start to their prosecution of the lindsay clancy case for they ended up by a strong place but are they able to stop at this place despite the media how about? i don't know. 11-1 of the near acquittal is not what we want to hear is a prosecutor. what we want to see is we want to make sure they have a strong theory going in. can a jury in massachusetts reached a place where they can convict lindsay clancy? the answer is i really don't know especially because the law in massachusetts makes the burden on the prosecution to rebut any sort of mental defect that the defense raises. it's a really high standard and it differs from most states insanity laws. >> if you and i were out cold           
      9:56 pm    
            prosecuting this case with you being the lead prosecutor course and we are in jury selection i've got no clue what kind of juror we would want. i like having women jurors but it didn't turn out great for first-time and men men don't like convicting women. that leaves people my age who are skeptical of mental health defenses. who is the ideal juror are a prosecution standpoint? >> that's the million-dollar question. everyone is ours our is asking now but you're exactly right we don't know who to write juror is but i have to tell you this has been such a media phenomenon. i want to find 12 jurors who been living under a rock may be a different planet who have never heard of this case. the last thing you want is for someone to walk into the jury room is bringing a bunch of baggage about what this case should mean. and about what this should mean for the mental health system. they need to be people who can look at just the evidence and           
      9:57 pm    
            the facts and lindsay clancy's case so justice can be found for cora, dawson and callan. >> there are lots of rocks in the world and i don't know how many people would have under them. there are 12 people in the country that have no idea what you and i are talking about. before he let you go what would the charge be in this case if crate them is legal? you might have a good civil case like in a dram shop case or an underage person or a driver but what would the criminal case be if kratom is legal? >> that is going to be something that prosecutors need to thread carefully. while kratom may be legal there substances within kratom that have been put on schedule one by the da meaning they are illegal in all circumstances. if you are able to show that those substances were sold by           
      9:58 pm    
            these individuals and found in the decedents bodies, you do have the case there to be made that you are possessing illegal substances with the intent to distribute and then you have of course the people who have been selling these things. they knew something was amiss. when they were trying to make these buyers they told them be careful, people are dying from these things. that type of intent is powerful for any criminal prosecution. >> kratom as a whole, has it been scheduled yet or is it just the other ingredients that sometimes going too at? if they sell it at a gas station i'm not going to put into my body but for people who don't agree to the da schedule craig newmark just the other ingredients? >> that's a great question.           
      9:59 pm    
            da has not scheduled kratom because kratom covers a lot more than what's being sold for there's a synthetic kratom and create a mobile mixed with other substances and substances that are particularly dangerous and create them or the product that was found next to these young boys bodies when they were found. those substances have recently on a temporary basis or on da schedule on. they are trying to figure out what exactly is dangerous about kratom and kratom projects. there's a lot we don't know because when you have something that can be sold over-the-counter that claims the natural because kratom is some sort of plant, a lot of bad actors can get their hands on it and potentially it's what happened here that can cause immense harm or even death. >> it's definitely a plant in           
      10:00 pm    
            southeast asia. it's not a planned atag gas station -- a plant and a gas station where you stop. madam president i thank you for joining us on this sunday night. i look forward to having you back on soon. >> thank you so much. >> yes ma'am. thank you for spending part of her sunday with us. we hope you have a great week ahead. find us on line at gowdy americorps the trey gowdy podcast. good night from south carolina ♪ welcome to "one nation" hope you have a jessica ghawi what closes. senator tom kohn at you people know more about than him. i will propose headlines for him to see if he believes that china is a new vie           
left
right
Borrow Program
Favorite
tv
Sunday Night in America With Trey Gowdy
FOX News October 4, 2026 9:00pm-10:00pm PDT
Insightful analysis and a new outlook on the issues facing the country; Trey Gowdy, the former South Carolina Congressman, breaks down the legal and political news.
TOPIC FREQUENCY
Us
23
, 
America
10
, 
U.s.
7
, 
Ken Paxton
5
, 
Letitia James
5
, 
Lindsay Clancy
5
, 
Medicare
5
, 
Israel
5
, 
Texas
5
, 
Ukraine
3
, 
Unitedhealthcare
3
, 
James Talarico
3
, 
Minnesota
3
, 
Massachusetts
3
, 
Gowdy
2
, 
Chicago
2
, 
Doj
2
, 
Nintendo
2
, 
Cornell
2
, 
Kitchenaid
2
Network
FOX News
Duration
            01:00:59                
Scanned in
            San Francisco, CA, USA                
Language
English
Source
            Comcast Cable                
Tuner
            Virtual Ch. 760                
Video Codec
            h264                
Audio Cocec
            ac3                
Pixel width
            1280                
Pixel height
            720                
Audio/Visual
            sound, color                
Item Size
            2.6G                
Notes
This material may be protected by copyright law (Title 17 U.S. Code).
0
        Views      
info
 Stream Only
IN COLLECTIONS
Fox News West
Television Archive
Television Archive News Search Service
        Uploaded by
            TV Archive          
                  on 
October 5, 2026
Terms of Service (last updated 12/31/2014)
    