
News 12 | Westchester | Families Lawmakers Condemn Gov Hochuls Local Cops Local Crimes Act Outside Yorktown Police Station
News 12
News12 New York
N12 Originals
Numbers & Links
Local
Crime
Weather
Politics
Sunny
70°
LIVE
Local
Crime
Weather
Politics
Families, lawmakers condemn Gov. Hochul's 'Local Cops, Local Crimes Act' outside Yorktown police station
The pushback follows the death of Sheridan Gorman, an 18-year-old Yorktown college student who was shot and killed while walking with friends near her college campus in Chicago.
Lauren Del Valle
•
Jul 24, 2026, 5:30 PM
•
Updated 
Share:
More Stories
01:13
Sunny and milder today before rain returns for another weekend in the Hudson Valley
Fire damages Sloatsburg home, draws response from 4 fire departments
06:40
Bus drivers demand justice after alleged assault leaves Yonkers driver hospitalized
00:23
Pedestrians struck in Mamaroneck crosswalk; driver ticketed, arrested on forgery charge
Rockland man sentenced to 12 years for sexually abusing child under 13
00:00
Dutchess County man gets decades in prison for abusing child under 15
A grieving family, local community members and elected officials gathered outside the Yorktown Police Department to speak out against Gov. Kathy Hochul’s "Local Cops, Local Crimes Act." The law will bar local police departments from partnering with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE).
The pushback follows the death of Sheridan Gorman, an 18-year-old Yorktown college student who was shot and killed while walking with friends near her college campus in Chicago.
The suspect in the shooting, 25-year-old Jose Medina-Medina, an undocumented Venezuelan immigrant, has pleaded not guilty to first-degree murder.
"I worry that another parent will one day collapse on their child's empty bed, begging God, screaming into their pillow, because the same politicians made the same mistakes," said Jessica Gorman, mother of Sheridan Gorman.
Jessica Gorman argues that her daughter's death might have been prevented if not for sanctuary policies in cities and states like Chicago and New York.
Political figures from across the state joined the family in demanding the law be reconsidered.
"Stop tying the hands of our local police. Stop forcing sanctuary policies on our towns and villages and stop putting politics ahead of public safety," said Rep. Mike Lawler.
"An 18-year-old daughter at the beginning of her life. Gunned down by someone who should not have been in this country," said Gubernatorial candidate Bruce Blakeman.
Under the legislation, police departments will have to comply or lose state law enforcement funding.
A spokesperson for Hochul's office sent News 12 a statement about the issue.
"The murder of Sheridan Gorman is a tragedy, and if found guilty, the man responsible should serve the maximum sentence and then be deported. But the way we keep New Yorkers safe is by focusing our local law enforcement on actual criminals, not assisting in ICE operations that harass innocent people and split apart families. While other elected officials choose to politicize this terrible crime, Governor Hochul has actually invested in public safety and continues to make New York safer," the spokespeson wrote.
Top Stories
06:40
Bus drivers demand justice after alleged assault leaves Yonkers driver hospitalized
01:13
Sunny and milder today before rain returns for another weekend in the Hudson Valley
Fire damages Sloatsburg home, draws response from 4 fire departments
00:00
Dutchess County man gets decades in prison for abusing child under 15
Rockland man sentenced to 12 years for sexually abusing child under 13
01:42
Man accused of exposing himself on trailway caught during targeted police patrols
00:25
Father of 7 dies, wife seriously injured when pickup truck goes over guide rail on Rt. 6
00:23
13-year-old thrown from electric dirt bike in Carmel crash, suffers serious injuries
00:23
Pedestrians struck in Mamaroneck crosswalk; driver ticketed, arrested on forgery charge
01:33
Tarrytown temple marks 3 years since Oct. 7 attacks in Israel
01:42
Man in bulletproof vest arrested near Haviland Middle School with knife, rifle magazines
01:29
Haverstraw breaks ground on Village Square Apartments project
01:52
Northwell Health's Phelps Hospital hosts second annual 'Phelps goes Pink' bra drive
01:54
Parents: Washingtonville students forced to interact with teen accused of putting them on what parents call a ‘kill list’
01:54
Officials warn of 'lost pet scams' as Valhalla family searches for missing dog 
00:35
More mastodon remains discovered in Orange County backyard 
00:26
Rockland postal worker sentenced in shoving of 4-year-old boy
00:23
Teen wounded in stabbing near Yonkers Burger King
00:34
2 Nyack men face life in prison or death penalty in connection with fatal Pomona parking lot shooting
00:23
Man accused of operating narcotics ring out of laundromat near Vassar College
info
Newsletter
Send Photos/Videos
Contact
About Us
News Team
News 12 New York
follow us
Twitter
Facebook
Instagram
more resources
Optimum Corporate
Optimum Service
Advertise on News 12
Careers
Content Removal Policy
© 
2026
 N12N, LLC
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Ad Choices
Privacy Manager
