                         STATE OF NEW YORK
     ________________________________________________________________________

                                      1747--B

                            2019-2020 Regular Sessions

                                IN SENATE
                                 January 16, 2019
                                    ___________

     Introduced by Sens. SEPULVEDA, BAILEY, BENJAMIN, BIAGGI, CARLUCCI,
       COMRIE, GIANARIS, GOUNARDES, HARCKHAM, HOYLMAN, JACKSON, KAVANAGH,
       KRUEGER, LIU, MAY, MAYER, MONTGOMERY, MYRIE, PARKER, RAMOS, RIVERA,
       SALAZAR, SANDERS, SERRANO, STAVISKY -- read twice and ordered printed,
       and when printed to be committed to the Committee on Transportation --
       committee discharged, bill amended, ordered reprinted as amended and
       recommitted to said committee -- committee discharged, bill amended,
       ordered reprinted as amended and recommitted to said committee

     AN ACT to amend the vehicle and traffic law, in relation to the issuance
       of non-commercial drivers' licenses and learners' permits; and to
       repeal certain provisions of such law relating to driver's license
       applications

       The People of the State of New York, represented in Senate and   Assem-
     bly, do enact as follows:

 1     Section 1. This act shall be known and may be cited as the "driver's
 2   license access and privacy act".
 3     § 2. Section 201 of the vehicle and traffic law is amended by adding
 4   five new subdivisions 8, 9, 10, 11, and 12 to read as follows:
 5     8. Any portion of any record retained by the commissioner in relation
 6   to a non-commercial driver's license or learner's permit application or
 7   renewal application that contains the photo image or identifies the
 8   social security number, telephone number, place of birth, country of
 9   origin, place of employment, school or educational institution attended,
10   source of income, status as a recipient of public benefits, the customer
11   identification number associated with a public utilities account,
12   medical information or disability information of the holder of, or
13   applicant for, such license or permit is not a public record and shall
14   not be disclosed in response to any request for records except: (a) to
15   the person who is the subject of such records; or (b) where expressly
16   required pursuant to chapter three hundred three of part A of subtitle
17   vi of title forty-nine of the United States code; or (c) where necessary

     EXPLANATION--Matter in italics (underscored) is new; matter in brackets
                          [ ] is old law to be omitted.
                                                               LBD05648-07-9
     S. 1747--B                          2

 1   to comply with a lawful court order, judicial warrant signed by a judge
 2   appointed pursuant to article III of the United States constitution, or
 3   subpoena for individual records issued pursuant to the criminal proce-
 4   dure law or the civil practice law and rules.
 5     9. The commissioner shall not disclose or otherwise make accessible
 6   original documents or copies of documents collected from non-commercial
 7   driver's license or learner's permit applicants or renewal applicants to
 8   prove identity, age, or fitness except: (a) to the person who is the
 9   subject of such documents; or (b) where expressly required pursuant to
10   chapter three hundred three of part A of subtitle vi of title forty-nine
11   of the United States code; or (c) unless necessary to comply with a
12   lawful court order, judicial warrant signed by a judge appointed pursu-
13   ant to article III of the United States constitution, or subpoena for
14   individual records properly issued pursuant to the criminal procedure
15   law or the civil practice law and rules.
16     10. The commissioner shall not disclose or otherwise make accessible
17   any portion of any record that identifies whether the type of driver's
18   license or learner's permit that a person holds either meets federal
19   standards for identification or does not meet federal standards for
20   identification except:     (a) to the person who is the subject of such
21   record; or (b) where expressly required pursuant to chapter three
22   hundred three of part A of subtitle vi of title forty-nine of the United
23   States code; or (c) unless necessary to comply with a lawful court
24   order, judicial warrant signed by a judge appointed pursuant to article
25   III of the United States constitution, or subpoena for individual
26   records properly issued pursuant to the criminal procedure law or the
27   civil practice law and rules.
28     11. For the purposes of this section, whenever a lawful court order,
29   judicial warrant, or subpoena for individual records properly issued
30   pursuant to the criminal procedure law or the civil practice law and
31   rules is presented to the commissioner, only those records, documents,
32   or information specifically sought by such court order, warrant, or
33   subpoena may be disclosed.
34     12. (a) Except as required for the commissioner to issue or renew a
35   driver's license or learner's permit that meets federal standards for
36   identification, the commissioner, and any agent or employee of the
37   commissioner, shall not disclose or make accessible in any manner
38   records or information that he or she maintains, to any agency that
39   primarily enforces immigration law or to any employee or agent of such
40   agency, unless the commissioner is presented with a lawful court order
41   or judicial warrant signed by a judge appointed pursuant to article III
42   of the United States constitution. Upon receiving a request for such
43   records or information from an agency that primarily enforces immi-
44   gration law, the commissioner shall, no later than three days after such
45   request, notify the individual about whom such         information   was
46   requested, informing such individual of the request and the identity of
47   the agency that made such request.
48     (b) The commissioner shall require any person or entity that receives
49   or has access to records or information from the department to certify
50   to the commissioner, before such receipt or access, that such person or
51   entity shall not (i) use such records or information for civil immi-
52   gration purposes or (ii) disclose such records or information to any
53   agency that primarily enforces immigration law or to any employee or
54   agent of any such agency unless such disclosure is pursuant to a cooper-
55   ative arrangement between city, state and federal agencies which
56   arrangement does not enforce immigration law and which disclosure is
     S. 1747--B                          3

 1   limited to the specific records or information being sought pursuant to
 2   such arrangement. In addition to any records required to be kept pursu-
 3   ant to subdivision (c) of section 2721 of title 18 of the United States
 4   code, any person or entity certifying pursuant to this paragraph shall
 5   keep for a period of five years records of all uses and identifying each
 6   person or entity that primarily enforces immigration law that received
 7   department records or information from such certifying person or entity.
 8   Such records shall be maintained in a manner and form prescribed by the
 9   commissioner and shall be available for inspection by the commissioner
10   or his or her designee upon his or her request.
11     (c) For purposes of this subdivision, the term "agency that primarily
12   enforces immigration law" shall include, but not be limited to, United
13   States immigration and customs enforcement and United States customs and
14   border protection, and any successor agencies having similar duties.
15     § 3. Subdivision 1 of section 502 of the vehicle and traffic law, as
16   amended by chapter 465 of the laws of 2012, the third undesignated para-
17   graph as amended by chapter 248 of the laws of 2016, is amended to read
18   as follows:
19     1. Application for license. Application for a driver's license shall
20   be made to the commissioner. The fee prescribed by law may be submitted
21   with such application. The applicant shall furnish such proof of identi-
22   ty, age, and fitness as may be required by the commissioner.        With
23   respect to a non-commercial driver's license or learner's permit which
24   does not meet federal standards for identification, in addition to the
25   acceptable proofs of age and identity approved by the commissioner as of
26   January first, two thousand nineteen, acceptable proof of identity shall
27   also include, but not be limited to, a valid, unexpired foreign passport
28   issued by the applicant's country of citizenship (which shall also be
29   eligible as proof of age), a valid, unexpired consular identification
30   document issued by a consulate from the applicant's country of citizen-
31   ship, or a valid foreign driver's license that includes a photo image of
32   the applicant and which is unexpired or expired for less than twenty-
33   four months of its date of expiration, as primary forms of such proof.
34   Nothing contained in this subdivision shall be deemed to preclude the
35   commissioner from approving additional proofs of identity and age. The
36   commissioner may also provide that the application procedure shall
37   include the taking of a photo image or images of the applicant in
38   accordance with rules and regulations prescribed by the commissioner. In
39   addition, the commissioner also shall require that the applicant provide
40   his or her social security number [and] or, in lieu thereof, with
41   respect to an application for a non-commercial driver's license or
42   learner's permit which does not meet federal standards for identifica-
43   tion, an affidavit signed by such applicant that they have not been
44   issued a social security number. The commissioner also shall provide
45   space on the application so that the applicant may register in the New
46   York state organ and tissue donor registry under section forty-three
47   hundred ten of the public health law with the following stated on the
48   application in clear and conspicuous type:
49     "You must fill out the following section: Would you like to be added
50   to the Donate Life Registry? Check box for 'yes' or 'skip this ques-
51   tion'."
52     The commissioner of health shall not maintain records of any person
53   who checks "skip this question". Except where the application is made in
54   person or electronically, failure to check a box shall not impair the
55   validity of an application, and failure to check "yes" or checking "skip
56   this question" shall not be construed to imply a wish not to donate. In
     S. 1747--B                          4

 1   the case of an applicant under eighteen years of age, checking "yes"
 2   shall not constitute consent to make an anatomical gift or registration
 3   in the donate life registry, except as otherwise provided pursuant to
 4   the provisions of paragraph (b) of subdivision one of section forty-
 5   three hundred one of the public health law. Where an applicant has
 6   previously consented to make an anatomical gift or registered in the
 7   donate life registry, checking "skip this question" or failing to check
 8   a box shall not impair that consent or registration. In addition, an
 9   applicant for a commercial driver's license who will operate a commer-
10   cial motor vehicle in interstate commerce shall certify that such appli-
11   cant meets the requirements to operate a commercial motor vehicle, as
12   set forth in public law 99-570, title XII, and title 49 of the code of
13   federal regulations, and all regulations promulgated by the United
14   States secretary of transportation under the hazardous materials trans-
15   portation act. In addition, an applicant for a commercial driver's
16   license shall submit a medical certificate at such intervals as required
17   by the federal motor carrier safety improvement act of 1999 and Part
18   383.71(h) of title 49 of the code of federal regulations relating to
19   medical certification and in a manner prescribed by the commissioner.
20   For purposes of this section and sections five hundred three, five
21   hundred ten-a, and five hundred ten-aa of this title, the terms "medical
22   certificate" and "medical certification" shall mean a form substantially
23   in compliance with the form set forth in Part 391.43(h) of title 49 of
24   the code of federal regulations. Upon a determination that the holder of
25   a commercial driver's license has made any false statement, with respect
26   to the application for such license, the commissioner shall revoke such
27   license.
28     § 4. Paragraph (a) of subdivision 6 of section 502 of the vehicle and
29   traffic law, as amended by section 3 of part K of chapter 59 of the laws
30   of 2009, is amended to read as follows:
31     (a) A license issued pursuant to subdivision five of this section
32   shall be valid until the expiration date contained thereon, unless such
33   license is suspended, revoked or cancelled. Such license may be renewed
34   by submission of an application for renewal, the fee prescribed by law,
35   proofs of prior licensing, fitness and acceptable vision prescribed by
36   the commissioner, the applicant's social security number or, in lieu
37   thereof, with respect to an application for a non-commercial driver's
38   license or learner's permit which does not meet federal standards for
39   identification, an affidavit signed by such applicant that they have not
40   been issued a social security number, and if required by the commission-
41   er, a photo image of the applicant in such numbers and form as the
42   commissioner shall prescribe. In addition, an applicant for renewal of
43   a license containing a hazardous material endorsement shall pass an
44   examination to retain such endorsement. The commissioner shall, with
45   respect to the renewal of a hazardous materials endorsement, comply with
46   the requirements imposed upon states by sections 383.141 and 1572.13 of
47   title 49 of the code of federal regulations. A renewal of such license
48   shall be issued by the commissioner upon approval of such application,
49   except that no such license shall be issued if its issuance would be
50   inconsistent with the provisions of section five hundred sixteen of this
51   title, and except that the commissioner may refuse to renew such license
52   if the applicant is the holder of a currently valid or renewable license
53   to drive issued by another state or foreign country unless the applicant
54   surrenders such license.
55     § 5. Subdivision 7 of section 502 of the vehicle and traffic law is
56   REPEALED and two new subdivisions 7 and 8 are added to read as follows:
     S. 1747--B                          5

 1     7. Selective service act. The commissioner shall provide separate
 2   space on the application for a learner's permit, driver's license, non-
 3   driver identification card, or renewal thereof so that any person who is
 4   at least eighteen years of age but less than twenty-six years of age who
 5   applies to the commissioner for such permit, license, or card or renewal
 6   thereof may opt to register with the selective service in accordance
 7   with 50 U.S.C. App 451 et. seq., as amended, if such person is subject
 8   to such act, and consent to have the commissioner forward the necessary
 9   personal information in accordance with this subdivision. Such consent
10   shall be separate from any other certification or signature on such
11   application. The commissioner shall include on the application a brief
12   statement about the requirement of the law, a citation of the act, and
13   the consequences for failing to meet the same. The commissioner shall
14   forward to the selective service system, in an electronic format, the
15   necessary personal information required for registration only of indi-
16   viduals who have affirmatively opted and consented, pursuant to this
17   subdivision, to authorize the commissioner to forward such information
18   to the selective service system.
19     8. Non-commercial drivers' licenses and learners' permits which do not
20   meet federal standards for identification. (a) Non-commercial drivers'
21   licenses and learners' permits which do not meet federal standards for
22   identification shall be issued in such form as the commissioner shall
23   determine, provided that such licenses and permits shall be visually
24   identical to non-commercial drivers' licenses and learners' permits
25   which do meet federal standards for identification except that such
26   licenses and permits may state "Not for Federal Purposes". Provided,
27   however, that the commissioner may promulgate regulations providing for
28   additional design or color indicators for both such non-commercial driv-
29   ers' licenses and learners' permits if required to comply with federal
30   law.
31     (b) Applicants for a non-commercial driver's license or learner's
32   permit or a renewal thereof shall not be required to prove that they are
33   lawfully present in the United States.
34     (c) Application forms for non-commercial drivers' licenses and lear-
35   ners' permits which do not meet federal standards for identification or
36   for renewal thereof shall not state (i) the documents an applicant used
37   to prove age or identity, or (ii) an applicant's ineligibility for a
38   social security number where applicable, or (iii) an applicant's citi-
39   zenship or immigration status.
40     (d) The commissioner and any agent or employee of the commissioner
41   shall not retain the documents or copies of documents presented by
42   applicants for non-commercial drivers' licenses or learners' permits
43   which do not meet federal standards for identification to prove age or
44   identity except for a limited period necessary to ensure the validity
45   and authenticity of such documents.
46     (e) (i) A non-commercial driver's license or learner's permit which
47   does not meet federal standards for identification shall not be used as
48   evidence of a person's citizenship or immigration status, and shall not
49   be the basis for investigating, arresting, or detaining a person.   (ii)
50   Neither the commissioner nor any agent or employee of the commissioner
51   shall inquire about the citizenship or immigration status of any appli-
52   cant for a non-commercial driver's license or learner's permit which
53   does not meet federal standards for identification.
54     § 6. Subdivisions 2 and 3 of section 508 of the vehicle and traffic
55   law, as added by chapter 780 of the laws of 1972, are amended to read as
56   follows:
     S. 1747--B                          6

 1     2. Any application required to be filed under this article shall be in
 2   a manner and on a form or forms prescribed by the commissioner. The
 3   applicant shall furnish all information required by statute and, except
 4   as otherwise provided in this title, such other information as the
 5   commissioner shall deem appropriate.
 6     3. License record. The commissioner shall keep a record of every
 7   license issued which record shall be open to public inspection during
 8   reasonable business hours. Provided, however, that the following infor-
 9   mation whenever contained within the record of non-commercial drivers'
10   licenses and learners' permits shall not be open to public inspection:
11   the photo image, social security number, client identification number,
12   name, address, telephone number, place of birth, country of origin,
13   place of employment, school or educational institution attended, source
14   of income, status as a recipient of public benefits, the customer iden-
15   tification number associated with a public utilities account, medical
16   information or disability information of any holders of, or applicants
17   for, such licenses and permits, and whether such licenses or permits
18   meet federal standards for identification or do not meet federal stand-
19   ards for identification. Neither the commissioner nor his agent shall be
20   required to allow the inspection of an application, or to furnish a copy
21   thereof, or information therefrom, until a license has been issued ther-
22   eon.
23     § 7. Any system or method established by the commissioner of motor
24   vehicles to determine eligibility for a non-commercial driver's license
25   or learner's permit which does not meet federal standards for identifi-
26   cation shall not be structured in a manner that substantially disadvan-
27   tages or denies such licenses or permits to applicants who do not have
28   social security numbers or who use documents issued by a foreign govern-
29   ment to prove age or identity.
30     § 8. This act shall take effect on the one hundred eightieth day after
31   it shall have become a law. Effective immediately, the addition, amend-
32   ment and/or repeal of any rule or regulation necessary for the implemen-
33   tation of this act on its effective date are authorized to be made and
34   completed on or before such date.
