DATE: 2025-09-17T09:57:24-04:00

Numbers, Facts and Trends Shaping Your World

Research Topics						
			
	

		
					

			

					
					
			
	

		
					



Topics





Politics & Policy

International Affairs

Immigration & Migration

Race & Ethnicity

Religion

Age & Generations

Gender & LGBTQ





Family & Relationships

Economy & Work

Science

Internet & Technology

News Habits & Media

Methodological Research



Full Topic List

Research TopicsPublicationsShort ReadsTools & DatasetsAbout Pew Research CenterNewslettersPressMy AccountContacted By Us?
		
				
		
		
			
										
			
	

		
					

			

					
					
			
	

		
					

Search
					
				




Read Our Research On:

X

Facebook

Threads

LinkedIn

WhatsApp


Mail



Add Us On Google


By Brian Kennedy, Eileen Yam, Emma Kikuchi, Isabelle Pula and Javier Fuentes



Table of Contents			
				
					
									
								
			
				
			
		
							
				
			
				
					How Americans View AI and Its Impact on People and Society
									
								
			
				
			
		
							
				
			
				
					1. AI in Americans’ lives: Awareness, experiences and attitudes
									
								
			
				
			
		
							
				
			
				
					2. Views of AI’s impact on society and human abilities
									
								
			
				
			
		
							
				
			
				
					3. Americans on the risks, benefits of AI – in their own words
									
								
			
				
			
		
							
				
			
				
					Acknowledgments
									
								
			
				
			
		
							
				
			
				
					Methodology
									
								
			
				
			
		
							
				
			
				
					Appendix
									
								
			
				
			
		
							
				
			
			







(SmileStudioAP)



How we did this
Pew Research Center conducted this study to understand Americans’ views of artificial intelligence (AI) and its potential impact on people and society. For this analysis, we surveyed 5,023 adults from June 9 to 15, 2025. Everyone who took part in this survey is a member of the Center’s American Trends Panel (ATP), a group of people recruited through national, random sampling of residential addresses who have agreed to take surveys regularly. This kind of recruitment gives nearly all U.S. adults a chance of selection.

Interviews were conducted either online or by telephone with a live interviewer. The survey is weighted to be representative of the U.S. adult population by gender, race, ethnicity, partisan affiliation, education, presidential vote (among voters) and other factors. Read more about the ATP’s methodology.

Here are the questions used for this report, the topline and the survey methodology.

Artificial intelligence tools are now playing a role in many aspects of life and society, spanning politics, the arts, work and beyond. While Americans express some openness to AI’s potential benefits, they’re concerned about its impact on some human abilities, according to a new Pew Research Center survey.

U.S. adults are generally pessimistic about AI’s effect on people’s ability to think creatively and form meaningful relationships: 53% say AI will worsen people’s ability to think creatively, compared with 16% who say it will improve this. An identical share (16%) says AI will make this skill neither better nor worse.

Far more say AI will worsen rather than improve people’s ability to form meaningful relationships (50% vs. 5%). One-quarter say AI won’t make this better or worse.

Americans are relatively more optimistic about AI improving problem-solving: 29% of U.S. adults say it will make people better at this skill. Still, a larger share (38%) says AI will make this worse.

Notably, sizable shares of U.S. adults are uncertain about these questions. Between 16% and 20% say they aren’t sure about whether AI will have a positive or negative impact on these human skills.

Building on our larger body of work tracking public opinion about AI’s societal impact, this study examines how Americans view AI’s effect on human abilities, as well as broader questions about AI’s impact on society. The survey, conducted among 5,023 U.S. adults from June 9 to 15, 2025, also updates our trends on Americans’ AI awareness and attitudes. In addition, in open-ended responses, survey respondents describe in their own words what they see as AI risks and benefits to society.

Americans are forming impressions of AI at a time when nearly all U.S. adults (95%) say they have heard at least a little about it.

Overall, Americans continue to be wary about its broader impact:

And more than half of Americans (57%) rate the societal risks of AI as high, compared with 25% who say the benefits of AI are high. When asked to describe in their own words why they rated the risks as high, the most common concern mentioned was about AI weakening human skills and connections.

In their own lives, about six-in-ten say they’d like more control over how AI is used, compared with 17% who are comfortable with their amount of control and 21% who are unsure. Still, nearly three-quarters say they’d be willing to let AI assist at least a little with day-to-day tasks and activities.

Related to Americans’ desire for more control over AI’s use, most Americans (76%) say it’s extremely or very important to be able to tell if pictures, videos and text were made by AI or people. But 53% of Americans are not too or not at all confident they can detect if something is made by AI versus a person.

Related: From political speeches to songs, how would Americans react if they found out AI was involved?

Similar to Americans’ concern about AI’s effect on people’s ability to form meaningful relationships, they largely do not see a role for AI in personal aspects of life such as matchmaking or religion. But there’s some receptiveness to AI doing heavy analytical tasks in the scientific, financial and medical realms.

Majorities say AI should play at least a small role in:

And slightly less than half (46%) say this about AI providing mental health support to people.

In contrast, about two-thirds say AI should play no role in judging whether two people could fall in love. An even larger share (73%) says that AI should play no role in advising people about their faith in God.

Notably, no more than about one-third of Americans say AI should play a big role in any of the areas we asked about.

Young adults are far more likely to be aware of and interact often with AI compared with those ages 65 and older. For example, 62% of those under 30 say they have heard or read a lot about AI, compared with 32% of those ages 65 and older. This awareness gap has grown considerably since 2022.

Furthermore, majorities of adults under 30 say the increased use of AI in society will make people worse at thinking creatively (61%) and forming meaningful relationships with other people (58%). In comparison, about four-in-ten adults ages 65 and older say AI will make people worse in these areas.

Jump to more on: AI in Americans’ lives: Awareness, experiences and attitudes | Views on AI’s impact on society and human abilities | Americans on the risks, benefits of AI – in their own words

Report PDF
	

Topline
	

Questionnaire



Sign up for our weekly newsletterFresh data delivered Saturday mornings

X

Facebook

Threads

LinkedIn

WhatsApp






Related



reportSep 17, 2026 		
			
															
		
		 Globally, More People Expect AI to Cause Job Loss Than Growth 						

short readsSep 16, 2026 		
			
															
		
		 Democrats are now more worried than Republicans about AI and its impact on jobs 						

short readsAug 25, 2026 		
			
															
		
		 Americans want transparency when AI is used in their healthcare 						

reportAug 25, 2026 		
			
															
		
		 From Diagnoses to Treatments, Why Americans Use AI Chatbots for Health 						

data essayAug 20, 2026 		
			
															
		
		 How Much of the Internet Is Written With AI? 						





Most Popular



1Globally, More People Expect AI to Cause Job Loss Than Growth

2Tradition and Change Among Latter-day Saints in the U.S.

3Americans Value Press Freedom but Differ on Its Limits

425 Years After 9/11, a Portrait of Muslim Americans

5Quiz: How much do you know about the First Amendment?






Report Materials
	

Report PDF
	

Topline
	

Questionnaire



Table of Contents			
				
					
									
								
			
				
			
		
							
				
			
				
					How Americans View AI and Its Impact on People and Society
									
								
			
				
			
		
							
				
			
				
					1. AI in Americans’ lives: Awareness, experiences and attitudes
									
								
			
				
			
		
							
				
			
				
					2. Views of AI’s impact on society and human abilities
									
								
			
				
			
		
							
				
			
				
					3. Americans on the risks, benefits of AI – in their own words
									
								
			
				
			
		
							
				
			
				
					Acknowledgments
									
								
			
				
			
		
							
				
			
				
					Methodology
									
								
			
				
			
		
							
				
			
				
					Appendix
									
								
			
				
			
		
							
				
			
			















901 E St. NW, Suite 300Washington, DC 20004USA(+1) 202-419-4300

Email Newsletters

YouTube

Instagram

Facebook

LinkedIn

X

Bluesky

Threads

RSS Feed






ABOUT PEW RESEARCH CENTER Pew Research Center is a nonpartisan, nonadvocacy fact tank that informs the public about the issues, attitudes and trends shaping the world. It does not take policy positions. The Center conducts public opinion polling, demographic research, computational social science research and other data-driven research. Pew Research Center is a subsidiary of The Pew Charitable Trusts, its primary funder.

Privacy NoticeWe use cookies and other technologies to help improve your experience; some are necessary for the site to work, and some are optional. Learn more in our privacy policy.

These cookies are required for the website to function and cannot be switched off.

These cookies are used to collect information about how you use our website.

These cookies are used to track your activity and show you personalized content.

These cookies allow the website to remember choices you make.