DATE: 2026-08-18T11:58:46-04:00

Numbers, Facts and Trends Shaping Your World

Research Topics						
			
	

		
					

			

					
					
			
	

		
					



Topics





Politics & Policy

International Affairs

Immigration & Migration

Race & Ethnicity

Religion

Age & Generations

Gender & LGBTQ





Family & Relationships

Economy & Work

Science

Internet & Technology

News Habits & Media

Methodological Research



Full Topic List

Research TopicsPublicationsShort ReadsTools & DatasetsAbout Pew Research CenterNewslettersPressMy AccountContacted By Us?
		
				
		
		
			
										
			
	

		
					

			

					
					
			
	

		
					

Search
					
				




Read Our Research On:

X

Facebook

Threads

LinkedIn

WhatsApp


Mail



Add Us On Google


By Colleen McClain and Eugenie Park


Americans have become increasingly worried about artificial intelligence over the years, and young adults’ concern has continued to climb. Worry over job loss, too, is on the rise.

Today, 52% of Americans say they are more concerned than excited about the increased use of AI in daily life – up from 37% in 2021. Another 9% are more excited than concerned and 37% say they’re equally excited and concerned, according to a Pew Research Center survey conducted June 22-28, 2026.

Concern about AI is up among younger and older Americans alike since we first asked this question in 2021. But while the rise was mainly in the first two years for Americans ages 30 and older, concern continues to climb for adults under 30 – whose skepticism of AI has made headlines in recent months.

For the first time, a majority of adults under 30 (55%) now say they’re more concerned than excited about AI. About one-in-ten say they’re more excited than concerned, and roughly a third feel both equally. Their concern is now on par with those in their 30s and 40s, and those 65 and up.

Across age groups, about half or more say they’re more concerned than excited about AI. Excitement, in turn, has dropped off since 2021 among all age groups.

This Pew Research Center analysis looks at how Americans feel about AI and its impact on jobs, both overall and by age.

Pew Research Center does research to inform the public, journalists and decision-makers. This research builds on our past work on how people feel about AI, what they think it will do to jobs, and how their views and experiences differ by age.

We surveyed 3,488 U.S. adults from June 22 to 28, 2026. Everyone who took part in this survey is a member of the Center’s American Trends Panel. The survey represents the views of the full U.S. adult population.

Here are the questions we used for this analysis, the topline and the survey methodology.

Even in 2021, job loss was one of the top reasons behind Americans’ concern about AI. Today, Americans largely – and increasingly – think AI-related job loss is on the horizon.

In our new survey, 71% of adults think AI will lead to fewer jobs in the United States over the next two decades, up from 64% in 2024. Few (5%) say AI will lead to more jobs. One-in-ten say it won’t make much difference, and a slightly larger share are unsure.

Across most age groups, it’s become more common for Americans to foresee job loss from AI. For example, 73% of adults under 30 now say AI will lead to fewer jobs, up from 61% two years ago.

The youngest adults are now just as likely as those ages 30 to 64 to hold this view. Americans 65 and older are a bit less likely to think AI will lead to fewer jobs, though this is still the majority view among this age group.

Worry over job loss has shown up throughout our research about AI, including among workers and even teenagers. And there’s no shortage of expert debate – many warn AI is a threat to jobs, while others have argued it creates them.

Young adults aren’t the only ones concerned about AI’s increasing use in daily life, or about job loss. Still, our past work shows they stand out in other ways.

Adults under 30 are most likely to think AI will be bad for society – and for them. They largely think it will make connection and creativity harder to come by. And though most say they use chatbots, they’re just as likely to say these tools hurt their own creativity as help it.

Note: Here are the questions we used for this analysis, the topline and the survey methodology.

X

Facebook

Threads

LinkedIn

WhatsApp














Colleen McClain is a senior researcher focusing on internet and technology research at Pew Research Center.

Eugenie Park is a research analyst at Pew Research Center.

901 E St. NW, Suite 300Washington, DC 20004USA(+1) 202-419-4300

Email Newsletters

YouTube

Instagram

Facebook

LinkedIn

X

Bluesky

Threads

RSS Feed






ABOUT PEW RESEARCH CENTER Pew Research Center is a nonpartisan, nonadvocacy fact tank that informs the public about the issues, attitudes and trends shaping the world. It does not take policy positions. The Center conducts public opinion polling, demographic research, computational social science research and other data-driven research. Pew Research Center is a subsidiary of The Pew Charitable Trusts, its primary funder.

Privacy NoticeWe use cookies and other technologies to help improve your experience; some are necessary for the site to work, and some are optional. Learn more in our privacy policy.

These cookies are required for the website to function and cannot be switched off.

These cookies are used to collect information about how you use our website.

These cookies are used to track your activity and show you personalized content.

These cookies allow the website to remember choices you make.