SOURCE: https://langworthy.house.gov/media/press-releases/congressman-langworthy-hails-release-1500-beagles-heinous-animal-abuse
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-15


Congressman Langworthy Hails Release of 1,500 Beagles from Heinous Animal Abuse Following Letter to HHS Secretary | Congressman Nick Langworthy
          Skip to main content
Follow on
Congressman Langworthy Hails Release of 1,500 Beagles from Heinous Animal Abuse Following Letter to HHS Secretary
May 3, 2026 
Press Release
Calls for Ending Federal Support for Invasive Research Involving Dogs and Cats
WASHINGTON, D.C. –May 3rd, 2026… Congressman Nick Langworthy today hailed the release of 1,500 beagles from Ridglan Farms, a large-scale beagle breeding facility in Blue Mounds, Wisconsin that has been documented for grotesque animal abuses. 
Ridglan Farms housed approximately 2,000 beagles bred solely for laboratory testing and has faced sustained public scrutiny, protests, and legal action over animal welfare violations, including allegations of conducting surgeries without anesthesia. Following pressure from Congressman Langworthy and others, the facility has transferred 1,5000 beagles to animal welfare organizations who have begun the rehabilitation and adoption process. Ridglan Farms is set to turn over their state license imminently. 
In April, Congressman Nick Langworthy sent a letter to Robert F. Kennedy Jr. and Dr. Jayanta Bhattacharya urging immediate action to end National Institutes of Health funding for research involving dogs sourced from Ridglan Farms as well as requesting a timeline to end federal support for invasive research involving dogs and cats. 
In the attached letter, Congressman Langworthy commended the Trump Administration’s efforts to reduce unnecessary animal testing and modernize biomedical research, while calling for stronger action to ensure taxpayer dollars are no longer used to support invasive testing on dogs bred solely for experimentation. 
Beagles are the primary breed used in animal testing because of their small size and naturally docile, submissive temperament, which makes them more appealing for lab technicians to handle even during painful procedures. They are frequently used in toxicity testing for pharmaceuticals, pesticides, and consumer beauty and health products. 
“The practice of breeding dogs and cats solely for painful experimentation and euthanasia is wrong,” said Congressman Nick Langworthy. “My heart breaks for these innocent beagles who are victims of their docile temperament, and the very least we can do is ensure that not one penny of taxpayer dollars is spent on enriching the monsters responsible for inflicting such cruelty and abuse. Ridglan Farms is facing its last days, but our work is not done. I’m working with HHS to make sure we never spend another federal dollar that leads to cruelty against dogs and cats.” 
Congressman Langworthy noted that even leading federal health officials, including Secretary Kennedy, have publicly questioned the necessity and reliability of animal testing models when modern alternatives can provide more accurate and ethical results. 
He concluded, “We have a duty to ensure that federally funded research reflects both humane treatment and modern scientific standards. As better and more reliable alternatives continue to emerge, there is zero excuse for continuing to support painful, outdated, and unnecessary animal testing practices.” 
Congressman Langworthy vowed to continue working with the Administration to advance humane research alternatives and ensure federal policy reflects both scientific innovation and compassion.
