TOP STORY SPOTLIGHT
Langworthy calls for federal probe into
selection, funding of North Aud Block project
Jonathan D. Epstein 17 hrs ago  47
Fast Way To Get Rid Of Mice (2026)
mice
Important Safety Information
Medication Guide Prescribing Information
KEYTRUDA QLEX is a medicine that may treat certain cancers by working
Do not receive KEYTRUDA QLEX if you are allergic to berahyaluronidase,
hyaluronidase or any of the inactive ingredients in KEYTRUDA QLEX.
Call to Action
Full Prescribing Information
*In studies with or without other diabetes medications, 75% (5mg) to 90% (10mg) of adults taking
Mounjaro reached an A1C <7%. Average starting A1C was 7.9% to 8.6% across the 5-, 10-, 15-mg
doses. In a study of basal insulin with or without Mounjaro, 90% of adults taking Mounjaro 10-mg
with basal insulin reached A1C <7% vs basal insulin alone.  
UP TO 90% OF ADUL TS TAKING MOUNJARO
REACHED AN A1C UNDER 7%.* INDICATION AND SAFETY SUMMARY
WITH WARNINGS
Mounjaro® (mown-JAHR-OH) is an
injectable medicine for adults and children
10 years of age and older with type 2
T
1
2
3
4
he controversy over the planned affordable housing project at the North Aud
Block of Canalside expanded on Tuesday, with U.S. Rep. Nick Langworthy
asking a federal agency to investigate how the developer was selected and how
federal affordable housing funds are being used for the development.
Langworthy, a Republican and longtime critic of Gov. Kathy Hochul, called for a
probe by the inspector general of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development to determine if the “procurement, financing and use of public
subsidies” for the North Aud Block project “warrant further scrutiny.”
Langworthy, in a statement, criticized the “dramatic
increase in public financial assistance” being
provided by the state for the $225 million project by
Philadelphia-based Pennrose LLC since it was first
awarded to the developer in 2023, following a
competitive request for proposals issued in May
2022.
How one study estimates Bills game day
costs for a family of four, in 6 graphics
Bills Mailbag: Biggest surprise, disappointments on initial 53-man
roster
Flash floods inundate Buffalo in Thursday evening deluge
Two teens killed in car that crashed while being chased by West
Seneca police
In a letter to the housing agency, Langworthy questioned if such a big change could
“undermine the integrity of a competitive procurement,” suggesting that other
developers might have responded differently had they known such funds would be
available.
Besides Pennrose, only two other firms submitted proposals, including Douglas
Jemal’s Douglas Development Corp. and Brooklyn-based BFC Partners.
“I am concerned that the project has changed materially since it was competitively
solicited and that its extraordinarily high public cost may undermine the purpose of
federal affordable housing resources,” wrote Langworthy.
 Gift this article Prefer us on Google
Former congressman wants
state to start over with
proposals for former Aud site
Should New York rebid the
proposed North Aud Block
redevelopment? Former Rep. Chris
Jacobs says the obvious answer is
yes. The state disagrees.
People are also reading…
Langworthy doesn’t represent downtown Buffalo or Canalside but serves on the
House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. Jessica Proud, a senior
adviser to the congressman, said that gives him jurisdiction over HUD “on a project
that affects the region, not just the footprint of the site.”
Langworthy's comments echoed previous criticism from downtown developer and
former Republican U.S. Rep. Chris Jacobs and other critics, who have called for
Empire State Development Corp. and its waterfront subsidiary, the Erie Canal
Harbor Development Corp., to rebid the mixed-income project.
Their concern, and Langworthy’s, focuses on the changes to the project since it was
first proposed, and the amount of taxpayer money being used to support it – equal to
more than $609,000 per apartment, on a project costing $896,000 per unit to build.
“I think the congressman raises valid and serious points in his letter,” Jacobs said.
“The federal government does not want to be party to a state agency that may have
violated bidding/procurement law. Further, the expenditure of nearly $1 million per
apartment on this development is wasting limited federal affordable housing
monies.”
Pennrose is constructing three new buildings with 251 apartments on a portion of
the former Memorial Auditorium site, which represents the last major parcel at
Canalside. But critics say the final plan is not what was promised to the community.
A rendering of the Pennrose North Aud Block housing development. Rents will range from a low of $757 per
month for a one-bedroom unit to as much as $2,950 for a three-bedroom, market-rate apartment.
Buffalo Planning Board
00:2300:23
The 340,945-square-foot project now calls for a 12-story building with 199
apartments and retail space, a six-story building with 52 apartments and three retail
spaces and a smaller retail-only building. All would be on a 1.85-acre site at 130 Main
St., along with 142 parking spaces.
One-quarter of the units, or 64 apartments, will be priced at market-rate rents, while
another quarter will be workforce housing targeted at households earning up to 80%
of the area median income. The other half will be equally divided between units
priced at no more than 60% and no more than 40% of the area median income.
But that comes with significant government
subsidies to finance the project that weren’t
identified until recently. The original request for
proposals cited only $10 million in public funding
that would be made available for specific
infrastructure and capital improvements.
The project relies heavily on $30 million in federal
low-income housing tax credits and $80 million in
discretionary grants, as well as a 30-year payment-
in-lieu-of-taxes agreement on the property that is
likely worth tens of millions of dollars in additional savings. Including state and
other sources, total government support amounts to $152.9 million, not including
the property tax break.
“Taxpayers deserve confidence that competitive procurements involving federally
supported projects are legitimate, that public subsidies are awarded transparently,
and that scarce affordable housing resources are being used to create as much
housing as reasonably possible,” Langworthy wrote in his letter.
A closer look at the North Aud
Block apartment project
It's taken more than a decade to
find a developer willing to bring
housing to the North Aud Block, the
site created by the demolition of
Memor…
Visit Denver
This is How We
Denver
Your Denver trip is up to
you. Go for nearby
outdoor adventure, treat
yourself to world-class
dining, or rock out at a
great venue.
This is How We Denver
Hochul and other state officials have repeatedly defended the project and the need
for the subsidies, noting that the vacant site has languished as an undeveloped hole
in the ground for years, in the midst of the Canalside tourism destination and efforts
to bolster downtown Buffalo, with no one stepping up. 
"For three decades, the North Aud Block has generated nothing but blight and zero
tax revenue,” said Laura Magee, spokeswoman for Empire State Development. “The
project now underway will transform a long vacant property into a mixed income
community, creating desperately needed affordable housing, supporting jobs and
tourism and bringing revenue to the City. After 30 years of neglect, North Aud Block
deserves progress."
But Langworthy, without referring to the governor or anyone else, rejected that,
saying that “federal resources are finite, and government has an obligation to ensure
that they are used efficiently.”
“When an unusually expensive project consumes substantial federal tax credits and
other public subsidies, fewer resources may be available to create affordable housing
elsewhere,” he wrote. “Federal affordable housing programs should serve families in
need – not be used to subsidize unnecessarily expensive development simply
because a project occupies a prominent or high-profile location.”
In his letter, Langworthy asked the Office of the Inspector General to review:
Whether HUD money, programs or other federal resources are involved, and
whether all requirements have been satisfied.
Whether the jump in public subsidies “raises concerns regarding procurement
integrity, internal controls, waste, fraud or abuse.”
Whether the development cost and public subsidy per unit represent an efficient
use of federal dollars.
Whether anything should be referred to the Internal Revenue Service, Treasury
Inspector General for Tax Administration or other federal agency for further
consideration.
“These are straightforward questions about the timing and allocation of more than
$80 million in taxpayer money,” Langworthy said. “Sunlight is the best disinfectant
and further transparency surrounding the details of this additional funding would
give the public full confidence that their hard-earned tax dollars are being treated
with the utmost care and integrity.”
Reach Jonathan D. Epstein at (716) 849-4478 or jepstein@buffnews.com.
Popular in the Community
 47 Comments
The business news you need
By Jonathan D. Epstein
News Business Reporter
   
Follow Jonathan D. Epstein
MULTIMEDIA
Read more coverage from reporter Jonathan D. Epstein
Jonathan D. Epstein2 hrs ago
Jonathan Epstein has been business reporter at The Buffalo News since 2004. He currently covers residential
and commercial real estate and dev…
Sponsored
AdChoices
Around The Web
Neurologists Beg Seniors
With Neuropathy: Stop
Doing This Now
Struggling With Sleep
Apnea? Take a Look at This
Pillow
Wa n t  Yo u r  To e n a i l s  t o  L o o k
Normal Again? See This At-
Home Nail Care Pen
Put a T oilet Paper Roll
Under The Toilet Seat at
Night if Alone (Here's Why)
1 Simple Tip to Save on Y our
Electric Bill (Try Tonight)
How to Beat Spinal
Stenosis: The Hidden Cause
Most Doctors Miss
Scientists Reveal a Shocking
Link Between Dementia and
This Common Routine
Wo r s t  Ca r  I n s u ra n c e
Companies for
Overcharging (Is Y ours On
the List?)
If Y ou're Collecting Under
$3950 In SS a Month: Y ou're
Eligible for These 10 ...
Get the latest local business news delivered FREE to your inbox weekly.
* I understand and agree that registration on or use of this site constitutes agreement to its user agreement and privacy
policy.
Related to this story
WHERE YOUR STORY LIVES - The Buffalo News
Hochul defends Empire State Development’s 30-
year tax break for North Aud developer
Hochul acknowledged criticism about the tax break arrangement
granted to Pennrose by Empire State Development. But she said it was
necessary t…
The North Aud Block housing project is getting
a 30-year tax break. Some officials aren’t happy
Empire State Development is under fire for granting a 30-year property
tax break to North Aud developer Pennrose.
Canalside construction picks up as work starts
on North Aud Block housing project
Construction activity at Canalside is picking up this summer, as two
housing projects are underway near the waterfront while a third is now
re…
Construction begins on controversial North Aud
Block project at Canalside
Construction on the last major piece of Canalside redevelopment
kicked off on Monday, as work started on a 251-unit housing project at
the Nor…
More than $600K per unit? State offers hefty
subsidy for North Aud housing project
At a time when developers say financing is hard, the Canalside project
just lined up funding that will cover more than two-thirds of the proje…
State waterfront agency rejects criticism of
North Aud Block project at Canalside
State officials say they have no problem with the mix of apartments
planned for the North Aud Block project at Canalside shifting away
from ma…
Canalside project shift to affordable housing
alarms business leaders
A group of downtown developers and business leaders are criticizing
plans to build 251 apartments on the North Aud Block at Canalside
because …
Watch Now: Related Video
Video: Tonawanda Elementary student awarded two Super Bowl tickets

Bills player Dion Dawkins on
new partnership with AAA
Buffalo Schools parent urges
district to pursue screen-time
policy
Le Roy road named in honor of
local hero who died in Vietnam
W ar
   
Prefer us on Google
Sites & Partners
Buffalo Job Finder
BN Home
[BN] Ads
Buffalo Magazine
WNY Weddings
Classifieds
The Buffalo News Store
Services
Activate
Manage Subscription
Advertise With Us
Work Here
Contests
Newsletters
Contact Us
Become a Carrier
Licensing
Shopping
© Copyright 2026 The Buffalo News, 726 Exchange St. Buffalo, NY 14210
A Lee Enterprises, Incorporated newspaper. Majority shareholder: David Hoffmann, Hoffmann Media Group.
Terms of Use | Privacy Policy | Advertising Terms of Use | Do Not Sell My Info | Cookie Preferences
Powered by BLOX Content Management System from bloxdigital.com.

Email Address Sign up!
Read Today's E-edition
E-edition News Obituaries Opinion Sports
 Puzzmo Puzzles Podcasts Gusto Lifestyles Business Public Notices Jobs 74° Cloudy
 Welcome, Subscriber
Search The Buffalo News Site Search 
✕
