WIVB (News 4 Buffalo), "Rep. Langworthy questions North Aud Block project," by Angelica Gallagher, posted Sep 8, 2026 10:21 PM EDT. Retained via in-app browser page text, Sept 9, 2026 (site returns 403 to curl/fetch).

BUFFALO, N.Y. (WIVB) — The North Aud Block at Canalside has sat vacant for decades.

Now, Pennrose, the Philadelphia-based developer chosen through a state process in 2023, has already started construction on a $225 million mixed-use development with 251 apartments — 187 of them designated for affordable housing. But Congressman Nick Langworthy worries the project's public funding changed significantly after Pennrose was selected.

"I'm not accusing anyone of anything, but let's examine — were all laws followed, is this project consistent with the spirit in law as it comes to the low-income housing tax credit and the $30 million federal dollars being subsidies here," Langworthy said. "What caught my attention was the vast amount of subsidy that's going into creating this housing on this very sought after property."

Langworthy says initially the project was advertised as having $10 million in public funding.

"Now we're looking at a staggering sum of over $600,000 per housing unit that's going to be put on this that's going to come from either federal, state, local or local taxpayers," Langworthy said.

Langworthy serves on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. He believes if advertised as is now, it would've drawn a local developer to use that local funding.

In a letter to the office of the Inspector General, he asks the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development to review whether the changes raise questions about the competitiveness of the selection process and the use of federal housing resources.

"The most important thing is to investigate whether or not the material change in the bid after it was awarded and those circumstances changing, is consistent with federal law," Langworthy said. "And make sure that everything was on the up and up, and if it is so be it."

Empire State Development oversees the Erie Canal Harbor Development Corporation and defends the project.

The agency said: "For three decades, the North Aud Block has generated nothing but blight and zero tax revenue. The project now underway will transform a long vacant property into a mixed income community, creating desperately needed affordable housing, supporting jobs and tourism and bringing revenue to the City. This project, which is supported by loans the developer must repay, was discussed and approved in public meetings and the commercial component will pay property taxes outside the PILOT agreement. After 30 years of neglect North Aud Block deserves progress."

"If it can't be accomplished without this level of subsidy, I think we should make sure that this is an appropriate use of those tax credits," Langworthy said.

We've reached out to Congressman Tim Kennedy, who represents the city of Buffalo in Congress, as well as Pennrose for comment, but have not heard back.
