Continuing coverage: Recent developments at the VA in Western New York
            
    
    
        
    
    
        
    
        
    
        
    
        
    
        
    
        
    
        
    
        
    
        
    
        
    
        
    
        
    
    
            
            
        
        
	
	
	
        Skip to main contentSkip to main content
        
        
        
    
    
    
    
    
        
        
    
    
        
                
                You are the owner of this collection.
                
                     Edit Collection
                    
                    Close
                
            
                
                You have permission to edit this collection.
                
                     Edit
                    Close
                
            
        
    
    
    
        
            
                
        
        
    
            
            
                
            
                
                    
                        
                    
                    
                        60°
                    
                    
                
            
                
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
        
        
     Log In

Site
                            Search
                         
                        
                    
                
                
                    
        
        
        
     AI Answers

News
                
                                
                                    Local

Obituaries
                
                                
                                    Featured Obituaries

Opinion
                
                                
                                    Submit a letter

Sports
                
                                
                                    Bills

Gusto
                
                                
                                    Event Calendar

Lifestyles
                
                                
                                    Announcements

Join the community
                
                                
                                    News tip

Print Edition
                
                                
                                    E-edition

Special Sections
                
                                
                                    Buffalo Magazine

Buy & Sell
                
                                
                                    Place an Ad

Customer Service
                
                                
                                    Activate

Site
                            Search
                         
                        
                    
                
                
                    
        
        
        
     AI Answers

Site
                            Search
                         
                        
                    
                
                
                    
        
        
        
     AI Answers

Javascript is required to use this website.

Continuing coverage: Recent developments at the VA in Western New York

It has been a busy last several years for the VA Western New York Healthcare System, which includes two medical centers in Buffalo and Batavia and nine community-based clinics across Western New York.

First, there was the response to the Covid-19 pandemic. Then there was talk of a new $1 billion hospital at or near the Buffalo Niagara Medical Campus. But it turns out that plan is many, many years away, necessitating major investments to the more than 75-year-old Buffalo VA Medical Center on Bailey Avenue.

Javascript is required for you to be able to read premium content. Please enable it in your browser settings.

(20) updates to this series since 
        Mar 10, 2026

Danielle Bergman is the new executive director of the VA Western New York Healthcare System. She will lead a system with 11 locations and 2,250 employees.

For fiscal year 2025, which will end Sept. 30, 139 VA facilities identified a total of more than 4,400 "severe occupational staffing shortages," up from more than 2,900 last year.

The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs on Wednesday announced the termination of collective bargaining agreements for most VA union employees, affecting more than 400,000 workers represented by several unions.

A report issued Thursday by the VA's Office of Inspector General includes 10 recommendations to the VA Western New York Healthcare System regarding its dementia and diabetes care.

Effective Monday, Harold Pharis will become the interim medical center director of the health system.

Royce Calhoun is now the interim director of VA Western New York Healthcare System. Shawn De Fries, interim director since August, returned to his role in the Finger Lakes.

The federal government remains committed to building a new veterans hospital in Buffalo, but other major construction projects are in line ahead of the Buffalo project, a top Department of Veterans Affairs official said at a committee hearing in Washington on Thursday.

The U.S. Government Accountability Office's nationwide evaluation of the VA's community care consults will include a review of practices around scheduling patient treatment, especially for high-risk and complex conditions, as well as how the VA handles concerns raised by patients and health care providers in cases of delayed treatment.

The top health official at the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs on Monday visited the embattled Buffalo VA Medical Center.

Friday's devastating report about delays in care at the Buffalo VA Medical Center – which, in one case, amplified the suffering of a terminally ill cancer patient – will probably not be the last such report.

Over 54 pages, the report paints a picture of a VA Western New York Healthcare System where local system administrators failed to address lengthy scheduling delays for patients with serious health conditions, even when staff repeatedly tried to alert leadership of how the lapses were affecting veterans.

An investigation into alleged administrative failures at the Buffalo VA Medical Center has been completed, and the probe's findings could soon be publicly released, according to the inspector general of the Department of Veterans Affairs.

The protest Friday in Buffalo was one of several that union nurses had across Veterans Affairs hospitals this week, targeting what they called a "hiring freeze" across the VA.

"There are concerns that the oncology department mishandled referrals for cancer treatment, leading to unacceptable delays for some of our veterans," Rep. Nick Langworthy said Thursday at press conference outside the Buffalo VA Medical Center.

The VA did not respond to a follow-up question about whether Michael J. Swartz, executive director of the VA Western New York Healthcare System, or Chief of Staff Dr. Philippe Jaoude could return to those roles, pending the outcome of the investigation.

The VA could still one day build a new Buffalo hospital – but that is something that would be "probably 20 to 25 years down the road."

The research facility, which will be located in a yet-to-be-determined location, will mean the VA's local research will no longer be done in an aging building constructed before the computer era.

A new hospital could bring hundreds of additional employees, patients and visitors downtown every day, but the VA plan is expected to be controversial.

The local VA health network has provided initial vaccine doses to more than 14,000 veterans, most over the last six weeks.

The goal of the VA vaccination program, Operation New Hope, is to vaccinate every veteran enrolled in VA health care who wants a shot.

Email notifications are only sent once a day, and only if there are new matching items.

© Copyright 2026
                        The Buffalo News, 726 Exchange St. Buffalo, NY 14210

A Lee Enterprises, Incorporated newspaper. Majority shareholder: David Hoffmann, Hoffmann Media Group.

Terms of Use
                        |
                        Privacy Policy
                        |
                        Advertising Terms of Use
                        |
                            Privacy Choices
                            |
                            Cookie Preferences

Powered by BLOX Content Management System from bloxdigital.com.

Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.

Account processing issue - the email address may already exist

Must be at least 8 characters, not contain repeating characters (e.g., 111), and not contain sequential numbers (e.g., 123).

Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in.

Invalid password or account does not exist

Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password.

An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account.

Purchase Gift
                            Purchase Access

Must be at least 8 characters, not contain repeating characters (e.g., 111), and not contain sequential numbers (e.g., 123).

Secure transaction.
            Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.

Your gift purchase was successful!
                                        Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.

A receipt was sent to your email.