=== PAGE 1 ===
June 13, 2025
The Honorable David Case
Acting Inspector General
Department of Veterans Affairs
810 Vermont Avenue, NW
Washington, DC 20420
Dear Acting Inspector General Case,
We write to request the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Office of Inspector General
(OIG) initiate a review of the mass cancellation of VA contracts launched by the so-called
Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE), Secretary Collins, and other officials of the
Department and the impact of these actions on veterans and VA operations. These activities
began soon after January 20 and are ongoing.
Since February of this year, Committee Minority staff have investigated these activities
using public government contracting databases, internal VA documents, conducting interviews
with VA employees and contractors, and other methods.
The preliminary findings after analyzing more than 650 VA contracts “terminated for
convenience” between January 20 and May 30, 2025, extracted from federal contracting
databases, are that a majority appear to be for services directly for veterans or critical VA
operations to include for safe health care delivery. They include more than two dozen for
medical supplies and equipment; four for cancer and tumor registries; more than 110 for
construction and infrastructure services to include maintenance of boilers; prosthetics, including
the conversion of a van for a veteran; more than 15 nursing home care contracts; more than 150
dealing with a wide range of quality of care, medical oversight, and hospital accreditation
preparedness services; PACT Act implementation; and more. These are all areas that have been
the subject of hundreds of OIG reports and investigations and known to be matters in which VA
needs more support, not less. In addition, to date, no evidence has been provided by VA that any
thoughtful contingency planning was put into place before these services were cancelled.
Compounding our concerns are the hiring freeze, deferred resignations, terminations, and
planned mass reductions of VA’s workforce that in theory is responsible for absorbing some of
this work.
To add to these alarming facts, recent media investigations, to include two stories
released by ProPublica on June 6, have found evidence that DOGE and VA officials used ill-
conceived Artificial Intelligence (AI) formulas and algorithms to make or inform contract
cancellation decisions—cutting out meaningful input from VA career experts to assess the
impact of ending these services. This adds an entire new level of unease connected to the
decision-making, security, governance, and quality control of the entire process.

=== PAGE 2 ===
As way of background, on February 24 and 25, 2025, Secretary Collins announced on
social media his plan, carried out with Elon Musk and DOGE, to cancel hundreds of VA
contracts he claimed were for “PowerPoint slides and meeting minutes” and indicated were
valued at $2 billion. After directing career officials in the Department to start the cancellations, a
list of more than 870 contracts was leaked to Congress and the media. The reality was that these
contracts were predominantly for direct services for veterans or supporting VA operations
including: suicide prevention and mental health treatment; disability claims processing, exams
and auditing; radiology services; outreach regarding burial benefits and health care services; and
contracts to conduct oversight activities to identify and prevent waste, fraud, and abuse.
When the true content of mass contract cancellations was exposed, VA’s leadership team
directed career officials to pause some cancellations. Public records show some contracts
previously cancelled at the Secretary’s direction were then reversed while others remain
cancelled and new contracts are being cancelled each week. On March 3, 2025, VA announced
that instead of more than 870 contracts, it would cancel 585 contracts with an alleged value of
$1.8 billion but provided no details. This has been a consistent pattern and problem. Despite
repeated requests in letters to the Secretary, questions at hearings, and dozens of emails to VA
officials, as of the date of this letter, the Department has not provided a single briefing or a
complete and accurate list of the contracts it has cancelled, descoped, modified, or otherwise
changed as part of this process or the underlying methodology, reasoning, and contingency
planning. On May 16, VA provided Congress with a list of more than 445 contracts which it
indicated were “terminated and closed.” This list was so riddled with errors and inaccuracies to
call into question the veracity of the entire document.
Since the beginning of this process, Secretary Collins and VA officials have repeatedly
denied—without supporting evidence—that the cancellations will negatively affect veterans or
VA operations, including saying:
• “[t]he termination of these contracts will not negatively affect Veteran care, benefits or
services, and will help VA better focus on its core mission: providing the best possible care
and services to Veterans, their families, caregivers and survivors”, VA Press Release, March
3, 2025;
• “as part of its review, VA career subject-matter expert employees responsible for the contract
cancelations were given the option to stop a cancellation if they felt it would negatively
impact health care, benefits or services for Veterans or VA beneficiaries”, VA Press Release,
March 3, 2025;
• “VA will not cancel contracts for work that provides services to veterans or that the agency
cannot do itself without a contingency plan in place”, VA Spokesperson, “DOGE Developed
Error-Prone AI Tool to “Munch” Veterans Affairs Contracts,” ProPublica, June 6, 2025;
and
• “[c]ontracts that directly support Veterans, beneficiaries or provide services VA cannot do
itself, such as a nurse who sees patients or an organization that provides third-party
certification services, respectively, were not canceled. Contracts that involved services VA
has the ability to perform itself were typically canceled”, Secretary Collins, letter to
Congress, May 2, 2025.

=== PAGE 3 ===
Based on these findings and information, we ask VA OIG to conduct a review of these
matters which may include a focus on:
• the impact of these cancellations on veterans, their families, caregivers and survivors health
care, benefits, memorial affairs and related services;
• the impact of these cancellations on VA operations such as quality of care oversight, patient
safety, accreditation, medical supplies and equipment, IT security, research, construction and
maintenance;
• the use of AI and/or algorithms to guide decision-making to include the recipient and purpose
each VA contract identified by DOGE VA employee Mr. Sahil Lavingia that has been
terminated; the formal assignment and instructions given to Mr. Lavingia with respect to
assessment of VA contracts to include whether they included the use of AI and the approval
of relevant code; the data integrity and protection measures taken, if any, to ensure the
safeguarding of any personally identifiable information; and the extent to which this and any
other related use of AI by DOGE or the VA violated any policy, procedure, regulation, or
statute;
• the extent, timing, and substantive involvement, if any, of VA career subject matter experts
in the decision-making regarding cancellations;
• the existence of contingency plans to replace the services prior to contract cancellations;
• an identification of the contracts cancelled, descoped, stopped or allowed to expire at part of
this mass cancellation effort;
• the financial transfer of funding from cancelled contracts to other VA activities; and
• other relevant matters as determined by VA OIG.
We firmly support VA efforts to regularly review services procured by the Department
and that process should be built into any functioning acquisition and program management
operation at VA. However, this process, which included cancelling hundreds of contracts, many
in a several-day period, then restoring dozens just a few days later, is not an indication of good
program management but rather waste, carelessness, and chaos. We are deeply concerned about
how these cancellations, which are ongoing, are or will impact veterans’ health care, benefits,
and other services; harm VA’s ability to perform oversight and program improvement; and
eliminate or significantly hinder the availability of critical tools to maintain safe and clean
facilities.
A non-partisan and independent review of these matters is critical. Thank you for your
attention to this matter.
Sincerely,
Richard Blumenthal Angus S. King, Jr.
Ranking Member United States Senator
Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs