=== PAGE 1 ===
Office of Audits and Evaluations
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
Review of Contracts Terminated
for Convenience
Review 25-03033-230 September 22, 2026

=== PAGE 2 ===
OUR MISSION
To conduct independent oversight of the Department of Veterans Affairs
that combats fraud, waste, and abuse and improves the effectiveness
and efficiency of programs and operations that provide for the health and
welfare of veterans, their families, caregivers, and survivors.
CONNECT WITH US
Subscribe to receive updates on reports, press releases, congressional
testimony, and more. Follow us at @VetAffairsOIG.
PRIVACY NOTICE
In addition to general privacy laws that govern release of medical
information, disclosure of certain veteran health or other private
information may be prohibited by various federal statutes including, but
not limited to, 38 U.S.C. §§ 5701, 5705, and 7332, absent an exemption
or other specified circumstances. As mandated by law, the OIG adheres
to privacy and confidentiality laws and regulations protecting veteran
health or other private information in this report.
Visit our website to view more publications.
vaoig.gov

=== PAGE 3 ===
Review of Contracts Terminated for Convenience
Executive Summary
The VA Office of Inspector General (OIG) reviewed VA contracts “terminated for
convenience”—that is, contracts that the government ended because it was in its best interest—
after receiving a request on June 13, 2025, from Senator Richard Blumenthal, the ranking
member of the US Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, and committee member
Senator Angus King. The senators asked the OIG to review the cancellation of VA contracts that
began after January 20, 2025, to identify which contracts were canceled, reduced in scope,
stopped, or allowed to expire as part of this cancellation effort. They cited concerns with the
impact of the cancellations, the use of artificial intelligence and algorithms in decision-making,
the input of VA career subject matter experts, contingency plans to replace services provided
from a canceled contract, and the financial transfer of funding from canceled contracts to other
VA activities. To address the senators’ concerns, the OIG team reviewed (1) the process VA
used to select contracts for termination and (2) the accuracy of the number of terminated
contracts and their associated values reported by VA.1
In November 2025, the VA Secretary announced that all VA procurement staff would be
operationally and administratively realigned under the Office of Acquisition, Logistics, and
Construction (OALC).2 As of May 31, 2026, the realignment structure was approved, with full
completion of the realignment anticipated by September 20, 2026. Although VA is realigning
acquisition responsibilities, the actions discussed in this review occurred before the realignment.
The OIG presented preliminary findings to OALC officials in January 2026. The officials agreed
with the results and took corrective actions to update and improve the clarity of a list VA
subsequently submitted to Congress on April 13, 2026. During the meeting, the OALC principal
executive director said the realignment of VA’s procurement offices into OALC will provide
better control, oversight, and data management of VA’s contracts, which could help streamline
similar widespread reviews if they occur in the future.
What the Review Found
During its review, the OIG found that from January through June 2025, VA received several
requests from the General Services Administration, VA senior advisers, and representatives of
the Department of Government Efficiency to terminate certain contracts. To reduce the risk of
terminating critical contracts, VA implemented procedures to review the contracts before
1Inspector General Cheryl L. Mason recused herself from this review based on her previous position as a senior
adviser to the VA Secretary.
2VA Secretary, “Enterprise Coordination to Realign All Procurement Staff under the Department of Veterans
Affairs Chief Acquisition Officer,” memorandum to under secretaries, assistant secretaries, and other key officials,
November 19, 2025.
VA OIG 25-03033-230 | Page i | September 22, 2026

=== PAGE 4 ===
Review of Contracts Terminated for Convenience
terminating them. Although the speed and volume of the requests created challenges for VA
staff, VA contracting officials generally complied with Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)
requirements for terminating contracts.
The OIG determined that VA terminated 435 contracts for convenience—valued at about
$1.1 billion—out of the 2,210 contract actions that the OIG reviewed. While the senators asked
the OIG to review the cancellation of contracts specifically, the OIG observed that the
cancellation request process under review involved individual contract actions. As defined in the
FAR, a contract may encompass multiple contract actions including delivery orders, task orders,
or purchase orders. This means that in some cases, parts of a contract (rather than an entire
contract) were terminated. So, although there may be one contract, the number of contract
actions associated with that contract may be significantly higher. The remaining 1,775 contract
actions the OIG reviewed were reinstated or never terminated for convenience, which could
indicate they were considered for termination before officials decided to keep them. That said,
the OIG found errors in the data submitted to Congress in May and July 2025. As noted, in
April 2026, VA submitted to Congress an updated list with improved clarity.
This report makes no recommendations that necessitate an action or response by VA. The
executive director of the Office of Procurement concurred with the draft report and provided no
additional comments. Appendix B provides the full text of the executive director’s response.
LARRY M. REINKEMEYER
Assistant Inspector General
for Audits and Evaluations
VA OIG 25-03033-230 | Page ii | September 22, 2026

=== PAGE 5 ===
Review of Contracts Terminated for Convenience
Contents
Executive Summary ......................................................................................................................... i
Abbreviations ................................................................................................................................. iv
Introduction ......................................................................................................................................1
Results ..............................................................................................................................................3
Finding: VA Established Review Procedures Before Terminating Contracts but Submitted
Inaccurate Data to Congress................................................................................3
Appendix A: Scope and Methodology ...........................................................................................11
Appendix B: VA Management Comments ....................................................................................13
OIG Contact and Staff Acknowledgments ....................................................................................14
Report Distribution ........................................................................................................................15
VA OIG 25-03033-230 | Page iii | September 22, 2026

=== PAGE 6 ===
Review of Contracts Terminated for Convenience
Abbreviations
CMSO Category Management Support Office
FAR Federal Acquisition Regulation
GSA General Services Administration
OALC Office of Acquisition, Logistics, and Construction
OIG Office of Inspector General
VHA Veterans Health Administration
VA OIG 25-03033-230 | Page iv | September 22, 2026

=== PAGE 7 ===
Review of Contracts Terminated for Convenience
Introduction
On June 13, 2025, Senator Richard Blumenthal, the ranking member of the US Senate
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, and committee member Senator Angus King requested that the
VA Office of Inspector General (OIG) review VA contracts “terminated for convenience”—that
is, contracts that the government ended because it was in its best interest. The senators asked for
a review of contracts that began after January 20, 2025, to identify which contracts were
canceled, reduced in scope, stopped, or allowed to expire as part of this cancellation effort. They
were concerned with the impact of the cancellations, the use of artificial intelligence and
algorithms in decision-making, the input of VA career subject matter experts, contingency plans
to replace services provided from a canceled contract, and the financial transfer of funding from
canceled contracts to other VA activities.
To address these concerns, the OIG team reviewed (1) the process VA used to select contracts
for termination and (2) the accuracy of the number of terminated contracts and their associated
values reported by VA.3 While the senators asked the OIG to review the cancellation of contracts
specifically, the OIG observed that the cancellation request process under review involved
individual contract actions. As defined in the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), a contract
may encompass multiple contract actions including delivery orders, task orders, or purchase
orders. This means that in some cases, parts of a contract (rather than an entire contract) were
terminated. As a result, the OIG refers to contract actions rather than contracts throughout this
review.
VA has the second largest acquisition budget in the federal government, obligating $78.3 billion
for contracts in fiscal year 2025.4 The Office of Acquisition, Logistics, and Construction
(OALC) directs VA’s acquisition functions. Within OALC, the Office of Procurement,
Acquisition, and Logistics provides acquisition support for VA. The Category Management
Support Office (CMSO)—within the OALC Office of Procurement, Acquisition, and Logistics—
oversees and manages VA’s category management initiative and data analytics. VA also has
10 contracting offices with senior officials, referred to as heads of contracting activities, who are
responsible for managing the department’s contracting operations. These operations include
appointing and overseeing contracting officers and ensuring contracts are awarded and
administered in compliance with policies. VA contracting officers award and manage their
assigned contracts, which include contract actions and orders awarded from governmentwide
contracts managed by the General Services Administration (GSA).
3Inspector General Cheryl L. Mason recused herself from this review based on her previous position as a senior
adviser to the VA Secretary.
4VA OIG analysis of data from USASpending.gov.
VA OIG 25-03033-230 | Page 1 | September 22, 2026

=== PAGE 8 ===
Review of Contracts Terminated for Convenience
Several events in early 2025 occasioned a review of VA contracts. First, on January 20, 2025, the
President issued Executive Order 14151, which required the cancellation of diversity, equity, and
inclusion activities in the federal government.5 Next, on February 11, 2025, the VA Secretary
established a team to identify and implement cost-saving measures across VA, including a
comprehensive review of all VA contracts based on recent presidential directives. In particular,
the Secretary directed the team to look for contracts that supported mentors, consultants,
coaches, and advisers; contracts for consulting or data research services that only delivered
reports or advice; and contracts that would be deemed wasteful by an average person.6 The team
was directed to develop a plan of action within two weeks of this initial request. In addition, on
February 26, 2025, the President’s Executive Order 14222 directed each agency to review all
existing contracts and terminate or modify contracts “to reduce overall Federal spending or
reallocate spending to promote efficiency and advance the policies of [the] Administration.”7
The federal government’s acquisition policies and procedures are codified in FAR 1.101 as
amended by the Revolutionary FAR Overhaul implemented in August 2025. According to the
FAR, the government has the unilateral right to partially or completely terminate a contract for
“its sole convenience” without being required to pay damages, in terms of lost future revenue as
a result of the termination. The government does not need a reason to terminate a contract for
convenience, other than that it is in the government’s best interest to do so. However, of note, the
FAR requires that the government pay the contractor fairly for its expended efforts up to the
contract termination, including settlement costs: reasonable expenses a contractor incurs to close
out work after the government ends a contract early.
5Exec. Order No. 14151, 90 Fed. Reg. 8339 (January 20, 2025).
6VA Secretary, “Establishment of Fiscal Responsibility Action Team and Implementation of Immediate Cost-
Saving Measures (VIEWS 12739356),” memorandum to under secretaries, assistant secretaries, and other key
officials, February 11, 2025.
7Exec. Order No. 14222, 90 Fed. Reg. 11095 (February 26, 2025).
VA OIG 25-03033-230 | Page 2 | September 22, 2026

=== PAGE 9 ===
Review of Contracts Terminated for Convenience
Results
Finding: VA Established Review Procedures Before Terminating
Contracts but Submitted Inaccurate Data to Congress
From January through June 2025, VA received several requests from GSA, VA senior advisers,
and the Department of Government Efficiency to terminate certain contracts. To reduce the risk
of ending critical services, VA established procedures to review the contracts before acting on
the requests. Despite challenges created by the speed and volume of these requests, VA
contracting officials generally complied with FAR requirements when terminating contracts.
Of the 2,210 contract actions the OIG reviewed, the team determined that VA terminated
435 contracts for convenience valued at about $1.1 billion. The remaining 1,775 contract actions
reviewed were either reinstated or never terminated for convenience, which may indicate they
were considered for termination before officials decided to retain them. In addition, the OIG
found errors in the data VA submitted to Congress. According to the OALC principle executive
director, officials who contributed to the information provided to Congress were unfamiliar with
contracting and acquisition terminology, which may have caused the mischaracterization of the
data.
The OIG communicated its preliminary findings to OALC officials in January 2026. Based on
these findings, OALC took corrective actions to update and improve the clarity of a list VA
subsequently submitted to Congress on April 13, 2026.
What the OIG Did
The team obtained and reviewed several lists of contract actions that were identified for
termination from February through July 2025. The OIG created a population of 2,210 contract
actions for review. The population was generated from the lists VA used to make public
statements on February 25, 2025, and March 3, 2025, about terminated contracts and the
two lists that VA reported to Congress on May 16, 2025, and July 3, 2025. VA may have
evaluated and terminated additional contracts that were not included in these four lists. The team
reviewed contract files for all 2,210 contract actions to evaluate contract costs, termination
notices and statuses, and settlement costs. The team also obtained and evaluated thousands of
emails, which included guidance and direction to identify, justify, or terminate contracts. See
appendix A for more on the review’s scope and methodology.
Procedures to Identify and Review Contracts
From January through June 2025, GSA, VA senior advisers, and Department of Government
Efficiency representatives sent dozens of instructions for VA officials to identify, review, and
terminate contract actions. CMSO coordinated VA’s efforts to compile lists and worked with
VA OIG 25-03033-230 | Page 3 | September 22, 2026

=== PAGE 10 ===
Review of Contracts Terminated for Convenience
senior OALC officials to direct VA heads of contracting activities, administrations, and staff
offices.
A CMSO official explained that most of the contract actions were identified by searching for
contracts using certain North American Industry Classification System and product service
codes, which are standardized contract codes that indicate the nature of the work procured by a
contract. In response to initial GSA and Department of Government Efficiency requests, CMSO
officials created a list of professional services and consulting contracts on February 6, 2025,
using these established and standardized codes—not a Department of Government Efficiency
artificial intelligence program. Most of the contracts that were ultimately terminated were
included in this list. In the subsequent days and weeks after CMSO officials created the initial
list, they continued to obtain and refine lists of contracts, and they tracked, monitored, and
updated the lists as contracts were added or removed.
To reduce the risk of terminating critical contracts, a VA senior adviser and the OALC principal
executive director established procedures in February 2025 for the VA administrations, staff
offices, and contracting offices to review the lists of contracts identified for termination. The
OALC principal executive director requested that each office provide justification to keep critical
contracts and identify the potential impact to veteran care and benefits if contracts were
terminated. The offices were required to explain why the contracts were critical to veterans and
VA’s mission and to describe the positive impacts they delivered. To do so, a VA senior adviser
and the OALC principal executive director asked VA contracting staff to complete a
questionnaire for each contract proposed for termination. The responses were required to be
reviewed and approved by the deputy under secretary or the deputy assistant secretary, as well as
senior advisers to the Secretary. The questionnaire asked the following:
· Can the task be completed by VA employees?
· How long would it take to have VA employees start doing the task?
· How would terminating the contract affect veterans?
The questionnaire also included a rating scale to determine whether the contract provided
1. direct care to a veteran or beneficiary;
2. specialized skills that VA could not easily hire;
3. temporary contract support for surge situations;
4. outsourced services that could be completed by VA employees, such as call centers,
training, or planning; or
5. administrative support,such as scheduling or travel coordination.
VA OIG 25-03033-230 | Page 4 | September 22, 2026

=== PAGE 11 ===
Review of Contracts Terminated for Convenience
Speed of the Identification and Termination Process
The OIG found the speed and volume of the process created challenges for VA staff. From
February through June 2025, OALC and VA senior advisers issued at least 47 orders to VA
contracting officials to justify contracts, terminate contracts, pause termination, or reinstate
contracts. In addition, VA senior advisers; OALC officials; and heads of contracting activities,
contracting offices, and program offices exchanged numerous follow-up emails regarding the
requests.
In some cases, VA officials were given two weeks to complete their review; in others, they were
given only a few hours to review hundreds of contracts. For example, on February 21, 2025, the
OALC principal executive director and a senior adviser to the Secretary directed the heads of
contracting activities, administrations, and staff offices to review 1,049 contract actions. The
offices were given less than 11 hours to complete their review, obtain approval from the deputy
under secretaries or deputy assistant secretaries and senior advisers, and submit responses to
OALC.
According to the OALC principal executive director, some offices did not complete their review
by the deadline. However, the CMSO director said VA senior advisers and Department of
Government Efficiency representatives directed them to terminate the contracts on
February 25, 2025, regardless of the incomplete reviews. The OALC principal executive director
explained that, as the reviews and justifications continued to come in, the proposed list of
contracts for termination decreased from February through March 2025. Figure 1 depicts key
events and the status of the proposed list of contracts in February and March 2025.
VA OIG 25-03033-230 | Page 5 | September 22, 2026

=== PAGE 12 ===
Review of Contracts Terminated for Convenience
Figure 1. Timeline of key events from February through March 2025.
Abbreviations: HCA, head of contracting activity; VHA, Veterans Health Administration.
Source: VA OIG analysis of emails and lists of contracts.
OALC and Veterans Health Administration (VHA) officials told the OIG team that all the
instructions received to identify, review, and terminate contracts, which included different lists
of contracts, made tracking difficult. The OIG observed that the lists were inconsistently
formatted, and some contained the same contract actions multiple times. Additionally, VHA
contracting officials explained they received directions to terminate contracts from multiple
sources—including OALC, VA senior advisers, and Department of Government Efficiency
representatives. This caused confusion and frustration. As a result, VA and VHA contracting
officials reported they had to dedicate staff full time to track and monitor the lists and
correspondence. To better track and monitor the lists and correspondence, OALC created a
database in April 2025.
Although the speed and volume of requests created challenges for VA acquisition staff, the OIG
found that VA contracting officials generally complied with FAR requirements for terminating
contracts. Specifically, VA contracting offices implemented procedures to issue stop-work orders
or termination notices to contractors, as required by FAR 49.102, which also says contracting
officers can amend the notices to correct errors or rescind them, if appropriate. Accordingly,
contracting officers then issued contract modifications to finalize the termination or rescind the
termination notices, as necessary. Finally, as addressed earlier, provisions of the FAR state that
the government must pay the contractor fairly for its expended efforts up to the contract
VA OIG 25-03033-230 | Page 6 | September 22, 2026

=== PAGE 13 ===
Review of Contracts Terminated for Convenience
termination, including settlement costs: reasonable expenses a contractor incurs to close out
work after the government ends a contract early. Therefore, contracting officers obtained
proposals and negotiated settlement costs with contractors, when necessary, and documented the
agreements through contract modifications.8
Contracts Terminated
The OIG determined that, of the 2,210 contract actions reviewed, VA terminated 435 for
convenience, with total contract values of about $1.1 billion. The total contract value is the full
cost of everything agreed upon for the entire project or service period, but it does not reflect how
much of the contract cost has been paid or any settlement costs. The OIG also found that
contracting officers initially terminated an additional 100 contract actions but later reinstated
them. The contract value of these actions totaled about $1.1 billion. For example, on
February 25, 2025, a contracting officer terminated a contract that provided financial audit
services of invoices from medical disability exam contractors, then they reinstated it on
August 1, 2025.
The remaining 1,675 contract actions the OIG team reviewed were never terminated for
convenience. Some received stop-work orders or termination notices but were ultimately not
terminated, indicating they were considered for termination before final decisions were made to
keep them. The review team did not evaluate whether these contracts were reduced in scope or
whether VA decided not to exercise contract option periods that would extend the contract’s
performance period. Table 1 summarizes contract action information by the date of the
termination list.
Table 1. Contract Actions by Date of Termination List
Date of Number of Number of Terminated Terminated Never
termination list reported unique then reinstated terminated
contract contract
actions actions
February 25, 2025 874 848 372 99 377
March 3, 2025 585 562 362 49 151
May 16, 2025 447 446 357 11 78
July 3, 2025 1,667 1,664 349 17 1,298
(Appeared on — (1,310) (1,005) (76) (229)
multiple lists)
8FAR 49.104; FAR 49.105; FAR 49.109-1; FAR 52.212-4.
VA OIG 25-03033-230 | Page 7 | September 22, 2026

=== PAGE 14 ===
Review of Contracts Terminated for Convenience
Date of Number of Number of Terminated Terminated Never
termination list reported unique then reinstated terminated
contract contract
actions actions
Total contract — 2,210 435 100 1,675
actions
reviewed*
Source: VA OIG analysis of VA’s contract files.
* The OIG team subtracted duplicate actions from the total to ensure each discrete action was counted only once.
The OIG found that most of the terminated contracts were categorized as consulting services, as
shown in figure 2, which was consistent with goals the VA Secretary established in
February 2025. The consulting services predominantly included management consulting
services, such as administrative management, program management, and strategic
communications.
Figure 2. Categories of terminated contracts.
Source: VA OIG analysis of VA’s contract files.
Of the contract actions reviewed, VA contracting officers completed settlement agreements for
267 of the 435 terminated contracts. Of the 267 settlement agreements, 150 were no-cost
settlements, as required by FAR 49.101. For the remaining 117 settlements, contracting officers
agreed to pay about $10.6 million of settlement costs. Since FAR 49.206-1 states contractors
have up to a year to submit settlement proposals, VA may have settled additional terminations in
the subsequent months after the OIG completed its review.
VA OIG 25-03033-230 | Page 8 | September 22, 2026

=== PAGE 15 ===
Review of Contracts Terminated for Convenience
Data Provided to Congress
VA submitted two lists of terminated contracts to Congress: one on May 16, 2025, and another
on July 3. Both lists of terminated contracts were incomplete and inaccurate. The May list
reported that VA terminated and closed 446 contract actions with total contract values of about
$120.9 billion. In an email that accompanied the list, VA said it did not include contracts that
were modified to reduce their scope—implying all contracts listed were fully terminated.
However, the OIG team found that, as of April 30, 2026, VA terminated only 357 of the
446 contract actions from this list. The list included 11 contract actions that were terminated then
later reinstated and 78 contract actions that were not terminated for convenience. Additionally,
the list contained 16 contract actions with total contract values of $1 billion or greater, although
the OIG found that none of those 16 actually exceeded $150 million. For example, a contract
action was reported at over $21 billion, but its actual estimated total value was just over
$74 million. A CMSO official explained that VA created a dashboard to track the terminated
contracts, which miscalculated the contract values. The same CMSO official said many of the
errors in this first list occurred due to individuals’ lack of familiarity with contracting processes
and terminology.
On July 3, 2025, VA submitted another list of contracts to Congress and reported in an email
accompanying the list that VA terminated or was terminating 1,667 contracts. The actual list
included only 1,664 contract actions and reported a combined total contract value of over
$1.4 billion. The OIG found that VA terminated only 366 of these contract actions, 17 of which
it later reinstated. According to the OALC principle executive director, like the first list, VA
senior advisers and Department of Government Efficiency representatives who contributed to the
information provided to Congress were unfamiliar with contracting and acquisition terminology,
which may have caused mischaracterizations in the list.
Furthermore, a CMSO official added that Department of Government Efficiency representatives
wanted to claim credit for any contracts that ended, including those that simply reached the end
of their performance period, such as completed supply and installation contracts. Specifically,
the second list included 974 supply-related contract actions that were not terminated, such as
those for prosthetics, surgical implants, and wheelchair ramps. It also included
151 healthcare-related contract actions that were not terminated, including orders for nursing
home services. Other contract actions misclassified as terminated included those for facility
operations, construction, and information technology services.
In January 2026, the OIG briefed OALC officials on its preliminary results. The officials said
they were preparing an updated list of terminated contracts to submit to Congress that captured
all contracts terminated from January 2025 through January 2026. Based on the OIG’s briefing,
OALC officials updated their list to clarify which contracts VA terminated, reduced in scope, or
chose not to exercise contract option periods for. VA submitted the updated data to Congress on
April 13, 2026. The OIG team did not review the accuracy or completeness of the data in that
VA OIG 25-03033-230 | Page 9 | September 22, 2026

=== PAGE 16 ===
Review of Contracts Terminated for Convenience
submission but confirmed that VA continued to review and terminate contracts beyond the scope
of the OIG’s review. Therefore, the OIG is not making any recommendations based on its
review.
Conclusion
Despite a challenging and fast-paced process, VA officials implemented procedures to review
contracts before terminating them, which reduced the risk of terminating critical services. Of the
2,210 contracts the OIG reviewed, the team determined VA terminated 435. However, according
to OALC officials: Because the officials who contributed to the data submitted to Congress were
not familiar with contracting or acquisition terminology, VA submitted inaccurate data to
Congress in May and July 2025. VA has since provided Congress with updated and clearer
information on the contracts that it terminated.
VA Management Comments
The executive director of the Office of Procurement concurred with the draft report and provided
no additional comments. Appendix B provides the full text of the director’s response.
VA OIG 25-03033-230 | Page 10 | September 22, 2026

=== PAGE 17 ===
Review of Contracts Terminated for Convenience
Appendix A: Scope and Methodology
Scope
The review team conducted its work from July 2025 through August 2026. The team reviewed
contracts VA reported that it terminated for convenience from February through July 2025.9
Methodology
The team obtained and reviewed several lists of contract actions that were identified for
termination from February through July 2025. The team created a population of 2,210 contract
actions for review based on the concerns about VA’s public statements and the data submitted to
Congress cited in the congressional request. Specifically, the OIG’s population of contract
actions included the lists VA used to make public statements on February 25, 2025, and
March 3, 2025, about terminated contracts and the two lists that VA reported to Congress on
May 16, 2025, and July 3, 2025. From those lists, the team identified 2,210 unique contract
actions after removing actions that occurred multiple times within a list or appeared on more
than one of the lists.
The team reviewed contract files for all 2,210 contract actions to evaluate contract costs,
termination notices and statuses, and settlement costs. The team did not evaluate whether
contracts were reduced in scope or whether VA chose not to exercise contract option periods,
which extend a contract’s performance, given that these actions do not result in a termination for
convenience. The team also obtained and evaluated thousands of emails, which included
guidance and direction to identify, justify, or terminate contracts.
Internal Controls
The team determined that performing an internal control step was not necessary unless internal
control deficiencies were noted during the review. The team did not find any significant internal
control deficiencies.10
Data Reliability
The team reviewed computer-processed data obtained from OALC officials such as manually
created and system-created Excel spreadsheets of contracts considered for termination. The team
compared the lists of contracts to contract source documents in VA’s electronic contract
management system, VA’s Integrated Financial and Acquisition System, and the Federal
9The project was on hold from October 1, 2025, until November 13, 2025, due to the federal government shutdown.
10Government Accountability Office, Standards for Internal Control in the Federal Government, GAO-25-107721,
May 2025.
VA OIG 25-03033-230 | Page 11 | September 22, 2026

=== PAGE 18 ===
Review of Contracts Terminated for Convenience
Procurement Data System. Specifically, the team reviewed the contracts, modifications, and
termination documentation for all 2,210 contracts in its population. Through its review, the team
identified errors in the data that it incorporated into its reported findings. The team relied on
federal procurement data only for coding and total contract values, which were assessed as
sufficiently reliable through completed data reliability checklists. Other computer-processed data
sources were used only for comparison or contextual understanding, not to support reported
findings.
Government Standards
The OIG conducted this review in accordance with the Council of the Inspectors General on
Integrity and Efficiency’s Quality Standards for Inspection and Evaluation.11
11Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency, Quality Standards for Inspection and Evaluation,
December 2020.
VA OIG 25-03033-230 | Page 12 | September 22, 2026

=== PAGE 19 ===
Review of Contracts Terminated for Convenience
Appendix B: VA Management Comments
Department of Veterans Affairs Memorandum
Date: August 31, 2026
From: Executive Director, Office of Procurement (003A)
Subj: Draft Report, Review of Contracts Terminated for Convenience [2025-03033-AE-0121]
To: Healthcare Contracts & Special Projects (52D04)
1.The Office of Procurement (OOP) completed its review of the subject Draft Report and concur without
comment.
The OIG removed point of contact information prior to publication.
(Original signed by)
Jeffrey C. Neill
The text of VA’s management comments is reprinted verbatim as received from the department.
For accessibility, the original format of this appendix has been modified to comply with
section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended.
VA OIG 25-03033-230 | Page 13 | September 22, 2026

=== PAGE 20 ===
Review of Contracts Terminated for Convenience
OIG Contact and Staff Acknowledgments
Contact For more information about this report, please contact the
Office of Inspector General at (202) 461–4720.
Review Team Alyssa Witten, Director
Rachel Gilbert
Kendrick Levett
Andrew Olsen
LaKesha Russ
Scott Wetzel
Danita Young
Other Contributors Allison Bennett
Steven Frontiera
Doyle Hunt
Thomas Martin
Charlma Quarles
John Velarde
VA OIG 25-03033-230 | Page 14 | September 22, 2026

=== PAGE 21 ===
Review of Contracts Terminated for Convenience
Report Distribution
VA Distribution
Office of the Secretary
Office of Accountability and Whistleblower Protection
Office of Acquisition, Logistics, and Construction
Office of Congressional and Legislative Affairs
Office of General Counsel
Office of Public and Intergovernmental Affairs
National Cemetery Administration
Veterans Benefits Administration
Veterans Health Administration
Non-VA Distribution
House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs
House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs,
and Related Agencies
House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform
Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs
Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs,
and Related Agencies
Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs
National Veterans Service Organizations
Government Accountability Office
Office of Management and Budget
OIG reports are available at vaoig.gov.
VA OIG 25-03033-230 | Page 15 | September 22, 2026