
State by State Medicaid and CHIP Enrollment Data – Center For Children and Families
X
Bluesky
Close menu
Research Topics
Research Topics
Explore All Research Topics
Medicaid
H.R.1 Resource Hub
Maternal & Early Childhood Health
Immigrant Health Coverage
Program Integrity
Managed Care
Rural Health
Waivers
Work Reporting Requirements
Data
Data
Explore All Data
State Data Hub
Data We’re Tracking
State Readiness to Implement HR 1
Implementation of H.R. 1 Medicaid Work Reporting Requirements
State by State Medicaid and CHIP Enrollment Data
Publications
Publications
Explore All Publications
Reports
Say Ahhh! Health Policy Blog
Projects
Fact Sheets & Snapshots
Annual Report on Child Coverage Trends
Comments on Federal Regulations
Webinars
About Us
About Us
Learn More About Us
Faculty and Staff
Funders
Jobs
Contact Us
Subscribe to Newsletter
Search
Search
Subscribe to Newsletter
Menu
				Data			
State by State Medicaid and CHIP Enrollment Data
Eligibility & Enrollment
CHIP
Medicaid
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Facebook
Click to share on X (Opens in new window)
X
Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
LinkedIn
Click to share on Mail (Opens in new window)
Mail
This tracker shows enrollment data for Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) in all 50 states and DC, from January 2025 to the most recent month available. Data include total Medicaid/CHIP enrollment, as well as enrollment for children, adults, and Medicaid expansion. Historical data are also included to provide additional context for state enrollment trends back to December 2019. This tracker is updated continuously.
				Choose a State			
							Alaska						
							Alabama						
							Arkansas						
							Arizona						
							California						
							Colorado						
							Connecticut						
							District of Columbia						
							Delaware						
							Florida						
							Georgia						
							Hawaii						
							Iowa						
							Idaho						
							Illinois						
							Indiana						
							Kansas						
							Kentucky						
							Louisiana						
							Massachusetts						
							Maryland						
							Maine						
							Michigan						
							Minnesota						
							Missouri						
							Mississippi						
							Montana						
							North Carolina						
							North Dakota						
							Nebraska						
							New Hampshire						
							New Jersey						
							New Mexico						
							Nevada						
							New York						
							Ohio						
							Oklahoma						
							Oregon						
							Pennsylvania						
							Rhode Island						
							South Carolina						
							South Dakota						
							Tennessee						
							Texas						
							Utah						
							Virginia						
							Vermont						
							Washington						
							Wisconsin						
							West Virginia						
							Wyoming						
Methodology
This analysis of Medicaid/CHIP enrollment data from the Georgetown University Center for Children and Families (CCF) uses state administrative enrollment data and data from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) to track total, child, adult, and expansion (where applicable) enrollment in Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) in each state. This tracker is updated as new data becomes available.
CCF uses administrative enrollment data posted to state websites where available. If state administrative data are not available or are not up-to-date, CCF uses enrollment data from CMS. All states and the District of Columbia are required to report monthly Medicaid and CHIP enrollment data to CMS as part of the Performance Indicator Project (PI). CCF uses updated rather than preliminary CMS enrollment data for all but the most recent month, for which only preliminary data is available; CCF updates this tracker with updated CMS data as it becomes available. PI data do not separately identify the Affordable Care Act (ACA) Medicaid expansion new adult group; CCF uses enrollment data submitted to CMS through the Medicaid Budget and Expenditure System (MBES) on Form CMS-64. 
State administrative enrollment data and enrollment data reported to CMS may differ depending on when enrollment is counted and which eligibility groups are included. Child, Adult, and Expansion groups may not sum to Total Medicaid/CHIP because of differences in data sources.
States may make retroactive changes to administrative enrollment data or enrollment data reported to CMS. These changes are reflected in continuous updates to the tracker.Please see the 
sources document
 for more information on data sources in each state. 
Medicaid/CHIP enrollment in both CMS data and state administrative sources tends to be higher than coverage estimates in survey data, such as the U.S. Census Bureau’s American Community Survey (ACS). Survey data often reflect a “Medicaid undercount” due to factors such as sampling and reporting error and demographic characteristics. Medicaid/CHIP enrollment reflected in this tracker may differ from other coverage estimates using different data sources.
Share
Subscribe for updates
Sign Up
Latest
One Big Beautiful Bill, One Big Rural Maternity Crisis
September 21, 2026
Tanesha Mondestin
 and 
Georgia Jensen
Fact-Checking the White House Fraud Ledger: Trusted Numbers or Legerdemain?
September 21, 2026
Andy Schneider
Census Bureau Releases Some New Data on Child Uninsured Rate, but Questions Remain
September 18, 2026
Joan Alker
 and 
Aubrianna Osorio
ccf.georgetown.edu
Research Topics
Data
Publications
Webinars
About
LinkedIn
X
RSS Feed
The Center for Children & Families
					(CCF) at the McCourt School of Public Policy at Georgetown University, is a nonpartisan policy and research center
					with a mission to expand and improve high-quality, affordable health coverage. Founded in 2005, CCF is devoted to
					improving the health of America’s children and families, particularly those with low and moderate incomes. 
Contact us
	© 2026 Center for Children & Families (CCF) of the Georgetown University McCourt School of Public Policy
Center for Children and Families | 500 First Street NW | Washington, DC 20001 | 202.784.3138
