
Children are losing health insurance at alarming pace.
X
Bluesky
Close menu
Research Topics
Research Topics
Explore All Research Topics
Medicaid
H.R.1 Resource Hub
Maternal & Early Childhood Health
Immigrant Health Coverage
Program Integrity
Managed Care
Rural Health
Waivers
Work Reporting Requirements
Data
Data
Explore All Data
State Data Hub
Data We’re Tracking
State Readiness to Implement HR 1
Implementation of H.R. 1 Medicaid Work Reporting Requirements
State by State Medicaid and CHIP Enrollment Data
Publications
Publications
Explore All Publications
Reports
Say Ahhh! Health Policy Blog
Projects
Fact Sheets & Snapshots
Annual Report on Child Coverage Trends
Comments on Federal Regulations
Webinars
About Us
About Us
Learn More About Us
Faculty and Staff
Funders
Jobs
Contact Us
Subscribe to Newsletter
Search
Search
Subscribe to Newsletter
Menu
				Blog			
Which States Are Seeing the Largest Declines in Child Medicaid/CHIP Enrollment?
June 10, 2026
Joan Alker
Children’s Health Coverage
Eligibility & Enrollment
Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)
Facebook
Click to share on X (Opens in new window)
X
Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window)
LinkedIn
Click to share on Mail (Opens in new window)
Mail
Georgetown CCF has been closely 
monitoring
 Medicaid/CHIP enrollment for many years — especially during periods of rapid change. Unfortunately, we are in another period where large declines in child Medicaid/CHIP enrollment are happening—more than 
2 million
 fewer children have been enrolled since January 2025. Why is this bad news? Because children in working families don’t have other obvious sources of affordable, comprehensive health coverage.
The critical question, of course, is whether those kids will find alternative coverage or become uninsured. We will find out more about the answer to that question this fall when the U.S. Census Bureau releases American Community Survey data for 2025, and we conduct our annual analysis of child coverage rates. Historically, when child enrollment in Medicaid and CHIP declines, 
child uninsured rates rise
 – which is precisely why we are so worried by such large enrollment declines. So for now, let’s unpack what we’re seeing when it comes to child enrollment in Medicaid. Here’s the short story: it doesn’t look good.
Which states are seeing the largest declines in child Medicaid/CHIP enrollment?
Indiana is at the top of the list in terms of percentage declines with an enrollment decline of 19.8% (or over 174,000 children) in April 2026 compared to January 2025. Indiana passed a 
state law
 in 2025 that added additional red tape and reporting requirements, which is likely contributing to the declines. 
California is among the leaders of declining child enrollment in terms of absolute numbers – the child enrollment declined by over 382,000 (7.7%) kids by March 2026 as compared to January 2025.
1
 The top ten states experiencing the largest absolute declines in child Medicaid/CHIP enrollment (California, Texas, Indiana, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Ohio, Arizona, Virginia and Kentucky) accounted for 67% of enrollment losses. The geographic and political diversity of these states underscores that this is a widespread problem. Only two states are holding steady or showing a slight increase (Colorado and Minnesota).
As we have 
repeatedly emphasized
, these enrollment losses are occurring BEFORE Medicaid cuts associated with H.R. 1 are coming into play, which is alarming as 
more declines
 will be on the way. Child enrollment declines are happening ON TOP of very large reductions in child enrollment that occurred during the post-pandemic “unwinding” – which we also closely monitored – and led to an increase in the child uninsured rate from 
5.1% in 2022 to 6% in 2024
.
2
As we expected, the pattern during the unwinding was different for children as opposed to adults for whom post pandemic enrollment declines did not result in a similar rise in the uninsured rate – a point often overlooked in the public discourse. That is because the 
majority
 of uninsured children are often eligible for Medicaid or CHIP but not currently enrolled or have lost coverage at renewal.
So why are these enrollment declines happening? In addition to state specific legislative changes such as those that occurred in Indiana that doubled down on some of the national trends, our best guesses (based on past experience) are:
The anti-immigrant agenda of the Trump Administration (including an unprecedented sharing of 
Medicaid data with ICE
) is creating a “chilling effect” whereby the parents of citizen children are fearful to enroll their clearly eligible children because of possible negative consequences for other family members such as deportation. The “chilling effect” is well documented in research and indeed was acknowledged and cited by the Trump Administration (albeit in a flawed way) itself in its proposed regulatory 
changes
 to the public charge rule.
3
 In addition some states (including 
Indiana
) are passing harsh state laws about reporting the immigration status of family members to the federal government.
More red tape and less outreach assistance to help families overcome administrative barriers. 
Cuts to navigator funding
 undermine access to enrollment support for families struggling to access affordable health coverage. The Trump Administration announced a 90% funding cut to the Affordable Care Act’s Navigator program that provides crucial outreach and enrollment support, especially in rural areas where brokers may not operate. The funding accounts for 5% of user fee dollars, so the cuts are unlikely to generate promised premium savings and may raise them by weakening the overall risk pool. Research shows the first Trump Administration’s cuts to these programs led to 
increases
 in the uninsured rate and 
decreases in marketplace enrollment.
Federal protections for children’s coverage are not being enforced by the Trump Administration. The most blatant example is Florida where 
43,000 children lost CHIP
 last year in violation of federal continuous coverage protections for children. States see this, and they know that they do not have to comply with federal law.
Families hear about Medicaid cuts and work reporting requirements and may not renew coverage as they assume they are already in effect. State systems and eligibility workers make mistakes. In a potentially tragic recent example, a severely ill parent in Nebraska was told by a state eligibility worker that she was going to lose her Medicaid for non-compliance with the work requirement, even though this was not true.
Having health insurance by no means solves all of the health problems children face. But having health insurance is the price of admission to our health care system and without it children will be less able to access needed care. Working families (who are already struggling with rising costs in many areas) are exposed to huge medical bills if a child falls on the playground and needs stitches or has an asthma attack and winds up in the ER. These scenarios happen every day. It is clearly established that Medicaid provides vital financial protection to lower-income families from the high cost of health care. Decades of research also 
show
 that children with Medicaid are healthier, do better in 
school
, and grow up to earn more and live healthier lives.
We will hopefully have more answers this fall with the release of the Census data but one thing is abundantly clear—children losing their health insurance will not make them healthy again nor improve their families’ economic situation.
[Editor’s Note: Medicaid/CHIP enrollment data for all states is available 
here.
]
Our 
data
 is constructed from one of two sources for each state – where available we use the latest administrative data obtained directly from state websites; if the state does not post more recent data we use CMS enrollment data which tends to lag by about 90 days. You can read about our 
methods
 and see all of our sources 
here
. Because we are updating the data very regularly, the percentages on our website may differ from the data in this blog. 
↩︎
Kentucky and North Carolina delayed post pandemic renewals for children so that may explain why Kentucky is on the list. The remaining states were essentially done during the period we are examining here. 
↩︎
You can read our comments on the public charge rule 
here
. 
↩︎
Share
Joan Alker
 is the Executive Director and a Research Professor at the Georgetown University McCourt School’s Center for Children and Families (CCF). 		
JoanAlker1
joanalker1.bsky.social
Subscribe for updates
Sign Up
Latest
One Big Beautiful Bill, One Big Rural Maternity Crisis
September 21, 2026
Tanesha Mondestin
 and 
Georgia Jensen
Fact-Checking the White House Fraud Ledger: Trusted Numbers or Legerdemain?
September 21, 2026
Andy Schneider
Census Bureau Releases Some New Data on Child Uninsured Rate, but Questions Remain
September 18, 2026
Joan Alker
 and 
Aubrianna Osorio
June 10, 2026
ccf.georgetown.edu
Research Topics
Data
Publications
Webinars
About
LinkedIn
X
RSS Feed
The Center for Children & Families
					(CCF) at the McCourt School of Public Policy at Georgetown University, is a nonpartisan policy and research center
					with a mission to expand and improve high-quality, affordable health coverage. Founded in 2005, CCF is devoted to
					improving the health of America’s children and families, particularly those with low and moderate incomes. 
Contact us
	© 2026 Center for Children & Families (CCF) of the Georgetown University McCourt School of Public Policy
Center for Children and Families | 500 First Street NW | Washington, DC 20001 | 202.784.3138
