SOURCE FILE: cidrap_umn_edu_measles_us_highly_likely_lose_measles_elimination_status_.html
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-25 via curl
DATE: 

US ‘highly likely’ to lose measles elimination status this fall, analysis warns | CIDRAP
    
    



    


  
  
    
    
      
    
  
          
        
              
        
            


        
      
            
              
          
          
              
                
                    

  

  
    
            
  US ‘highly likely’ to lose measles elimination status this fall, analysis warns

Share



                
          
            
              
                
              
            
            
              
                
              
            
          
        
    
                
          
            
              
                
              
            
            
              
            
          
        
    
                
          
            
            
          
        
    
        
        
        
                
          
            
              
                
              
            
            
              
                
              
            
          
        
    
        
        
        
        


                
        
            
              
                
                  
                
              
              
                
                  
                
              
            
            Copied to clipboard
        
    
    

    
  

      
            The United States is at high risk of losing its measles elimination status in November as rising case counts and sustained transmission undermine one of the country’s major public health achievements, according to a letter published late last week in The Lancet.

Measles was declared eliminated in the United States in 2000, meaning there was no continuous transmission for at least 12 months. The milestone was achieved following years of nationwide vaccination efforts, including the adoption of a two-dose measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) immunization schedule.

The current resurgence threatens that status. With 2,288 confirmed cases in 2025 and 1,814 confirmed cases as of last week, the country is experiencing its largest measles outbreak in decades.

The decision will be made by the Pan American Health Organization Measles and Rubella Elimination Regional Monitoring and Re-Verification Commission in November.

The epidemic, which began in Texas in early 2025 with two imported cases, has since spread to 45 states. To date, there have been 24 new outbreaks in 2026, and 93% of cases have been outbreak-associated.

This week, Utah reported 13 new measles cases, for a total of 441 cases in the state in 2026, and Colorado has confirmed 20 measles cases this year, three of them new. Most of the Colorado cases have occurred in children aged 5 to 17 years, and 19 of the 20 cases involved people who were not vaccinated.

One confirmed case was reported yesterday in Manhattan. The New York City Health Department is working to identify and notify people who may have been exposed at a restaurant.

US no longer meeting elimination benchmarks

To assess current measles transmission status in the United States, the authors of the letter used elimination indicators established by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in 2000, including incidence rate, transmission levels, and population immunity.

Then they used case counts reported by state health departments from January 2025 to February 2026 to calculate the effective reproduction number, which estimates the average number of infections caused by each case.

Their findings suggest that the country has already failed to meet four of seven key indicators and is unlikely to meet the remaining three. For example, current case rates far exceed elimination thresholds.

Instead of fewer than one case per 10 million people annually, which is the elimination indicator for incidence rate, the United States reported more than 90 cases per 10 million in early 2026. Another elimination indicator is a high proportion of imported cases, but most current infections are linked to local transmission rather than importation. Current outbreaks are also larger and more frequent than would be expected under elimination conditions.

Transmission rates also remain high. On 285 out of 376 days studied since January, the estimated transmission rate stayed above 1, meaning that each infected person was likely infecting at least one other person. “This estimate suggests that transmission was likely ongoing in the USA for the majority of the previous year,” write the authors.

Falling vaccination rates a key driver

Declining vaccination coverage appears to be a key factor in the measles resurgence. Coverage among kindergarteners in the 2024–25 school year was below the 95% needed to maintain herd immunity against measles.

The situation mirrors a broader global trend. Canada lost its measles elimination status in late 2025, and several European countries, including Spain and the United Kingdom, have lost their status amid rising case counts.

Given the current epidemiological context, it appears highly likely that the USA will lose its measles elimination status in 2026.

While the current analysis relies on older elimination criteria (the upcoming status review might use updated measures), the much larger number of cases in 2025 and 2026 than in 2011 suggests that the country’s elimination status is in jeopardy.

“Given the current epidemiological context, it appears highly likely that the USA will lose its measles elimination status in 2026,” the authors write. “Strengthening vaccination efforts, reducing exemption rates, and interrupting ongoing local transmission will be essential to reverse this trajectory.”

CIDRAP Op-Ed: Measles is a grown-up problem, too. Are you at risk?

CDC adds 177 cases to US measles total but has yet to confirm deaths in Pennsylvania

‘It’s a huge concern’: Families of kids with complex medical needs worry about frequent measles outbreaks

Four measles deaths, a looming policy comment deadline, and how to read a study: The State of US Vaccine Policy

At Senate hearing, US surgeon general nominee says she believes vaccines are safe

Fourth measles-associated death reported in Pennsylvania

New polls highlight tumbling trust in measles vaccine safety, advice from doctors

Pennsylvania woman dies of measles complications, the state's third such fatality this year

CDC confirms 37-case multistate hepatitis A outbreak linked to frozen clams

Cases have been identified in 4 states, Massachusetts, Minnesota, New York, and Pennsylvania.

CIDRAP Op-Ed: HHS is asking what to call vaccine recommendations. You have 4 days to weigh in.

The people with the most to say, the pediatricians, pharmacists, and obstetric nurses, are the ones least likely to know they can say it.

Airport air sampling captures COVID, influenza viruses

Researchers say air monitoring complements wastewater testing in detecting respiratory pathogens from diverse populations, including asymptomatic or pre-symptomatic people.

More than 1 in 10 US healthcare workers report ongoing long-COVID symptoms, study finds

Older age, female sex, multiple underlying health conditions, and multiple COVID infections were also associated with persistent symptoms.

At Senate hearing, US surgeon general nominee says she believes vaccines are safe

Nicole Saphier, MD, the third nominee for US surgeon general, touted the importance of the MMR and hepatitis B vaccines.

CIDRAP Op-Ed: Measles is a grown-up problem, too. Are you at risk?

About 40% of US cases this year have involved adults. In hard-hit Pennsylvania, the number is closer to 70%.

Fourth measles-associated death reported in Pennsylvania

The Mifflin County Coroner says an 18-year-old has died of acute disseminated encephalomyelitis, a rare and severe neurologic complication of measles.

CDC inaction delays COVID shots for low-income children

Although COVID-19 hospitalizations are climbing, the CDC has not yet announced when COVID shots for low-income kids will be available.

CDC adds 177 cases to US measles total but has yet to confirm deaths in Pennsylvania

Pennsylvania continues to be the nation’s hot spot, with cases reaching 767 today.

CDC’s new tracking method for measles deaths puzzles experts

Four measles-related deaths have been reported in Pennsylvania, but not by the CDC.

Unrestricted financial support provided by

Topics & Projects
                                
                    
        Antimicrobial Resistance

Coronavirus Vaccines Roadmap

Influenza Vaccines Roadmap

Roadmaps for Priority Pathogens

Podcasts
                                
                    
        Antimicrobial Stewardship

About
                                
                    
        About CIDRAP