DATE: 2025-12-16T17:15:55+00:00

HHS Adds Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy and MLD to the Federal Recommended Uniform Screening Panel (RUSP) - RARE Foundation
                Skip to content
RARE Foundation
About
Our Story
Our Impact
Our Team
Our Board
Contact Us
Financials and Governance
Careers
Partner With Us
Need help navigating a rare disease?
Get Support
Issues
Medicaid
Newborn Screening
FDA User Fees
Rare Disease Innovation Hub
Navigating the Access Environment
Orphan Drug Incentives
Driving Policy with Data
See all Issues we advocate for.
Our Issues
Advocacy
Why Advocate?
How to Get Started
Sign Up for Emails
Take Action
Trainings and Videos
Youth Advocacy
Find Your Legislators
Congressional Caucus
Advocate in Your State
What's your Rare Disease Story?
Share
Programs
RARE Young Adults
RARE Artist
RARE Pride
RARE Diversity
Community Congress
RARE Access Program
RARE Community Hub
Community Scholarships
RARE Community Grants
RARE Advocate Training Series
Connect with the rare disease community and explore ways to get involved.
See All
Events
RARE Disease Week
RARE Across America
State Advocacy Days
RARE Youth + Teen Advocacy Days
Newborn Screening Bootcamp
Scientific Workshop
Join Team RARE 
Check out our upcoming events
Calendar
Donate
One-Time Gift
Monthly Gift
Honor or Memorial Gifts
Planned Giving
Strategic Gifts
Create Your Own Impact – Join Team RARE 
Here's how you can support our programs and advocacy
Ways to Give
News
Resources & Data
Language
Search the site
Submit search
HHS Adds Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy and MLD to the Federal Recommended Uniform Screening Panel (RUSP)
                        December 16, 2025
Share this page
The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services has added Duchenne muscular dystrophy and Metachromatic Leukodystrophy (MLD) to the federal Recommended Uniform Screening Panel (RUSP)! The RUSP is a list of disorders that the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) recommend states screen as part of their newborn screening programs. The addition of these diseases by Secretary Kennedy today is a significant milestone for public health, opening the door to more timely interventions and optimized health outcomes for children affected by these rare diseases. 
The addition of Duchenne and MLD to the RUSP is the culmination of years of hard work and advocacy from the patient community, with evidence reviews submitted in August 2023 and August 2024 respectively. This process was made all the more difficult due to the dissolving of the Advisory Committee on Heritable Disorders in Newborns and Children (ACHDNC), which was responsible for advising the HHS Secretary on additions to the federal RUSP. When the ACHDNC was dissolved in April 2025, the Duchenne and MLD communities quickly pivoted to other methods of getting their evidence reviews seen by decision makers. On September 12, 2025, the EveryLife Foundation for Rare Diseases partnered with Parent Project Muscular Dystrophy (PPMD), the MLD Foundation, and the Muscular Dystrophy Association to host a one-of-a-kind Evidence Review Workshop, where the rare patient community was able to present their evidence reviews to key stakeholders with HHS. The formal request for public comment from the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), where the community can give testimony on the importance of adding conditions to RUSP, was closed on September 15, 2025.  
As Senator Wicker said, “This is a red-letter day. This is a monumental achievement that will go down in history.” 
Years of advocacy have paid off today. We congratulate the rare disease advocates and public health officials who worked tirelessly to make today’s progress possible—and we especially recognize and honor the Duchenne and MLD communities and the patient advocacy organizations who never gave up. 
Learn more about newborn screening 
here.
            Newborn Screening
Related Articles
                            Virginia Introduces Legislation to Align Newborn Screening with Federal Recommendations
                            January 31, 2025
                            Wisconsin Introduces Legislation to Align Newborn Screening with Federal Recommendations
                            February 02, 2024
                            New Study Measures Economic Impact of Delayed Diagnosis of Rare Diseases
                            September 14, 2023
                        See All News
RARE Foundation
Redefining Rare Disease
Donate Now
Careers
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Facebook
Bluesky
X
Instagram
Linkedin
Youtube
1012 14th Street NW, Suite 500
Washington, DC 20005
Phone 202-697-RARE (7273)
© 2026 RARE Foundation
New Name, Same Commitment to Rare Diseases
The EveryLife Foundation for Rare Diseases has become The RARE Foundation! Read more about our new brand and how it unifies our advocacy work on behalf of the rare disease community.
Read More
			×			
