SOURCE FILE: statnews_com_2025_04_04_cdc_ashtma_control_lead_poisoning_environmental_.html
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-25 via curl
DATE: 2025-04-04T18:52:23+00:00

CDC effectively shutters unit handling asthma control, lead poisoning issues
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	















	
	






		
				
		
		


















		
		  								
				
					
			







Skip to Main Content


				
					
						
					
									
				
				



	Health

	
	
		CDC division responsible for asthma control and lead poisoning prevention effectively eliminated

Workers say no other HHS unit has capacity to respond to such public health crises

Manage alerts for this article

Wong Maye-E/AP

					
								
									
								
					
						By Eric Boodman

General Assignment Reporter

After Hurricane Ian, as Floridians returned home to sodden furniture and moldy piles of debris, many with asthma could feel their chests tightening. To figure out what was safe, some sent their concerns directly to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

But on Tuesday — days before floods ravaged Nashville, potentially prompting similar queries — the people who would normally answer such asthma questions stopped working. They were notified that their jobs have been cut as part of massive layoffs at federal health agencies. Also cut: the people helping to deal with an ongoing lead-exposure crisis in Milwaukee schools. So were the federal health officials who would respond in the case of a radiation emergency.

All of those positions were housed within the CDC’s Division of Environmental Health Science and Practice. With the possible exception of commissioned public health officers, every single employee, including the director, was placed on leave this week. According to an internal CDC document shared with STAT, the division was “to be eliminated in its entirety.”

Since then, there have been conflicting messages from the Trump administration about the fate of these public health workers. According to ABC, health secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr. indicated that 20% of the programs that had been cut were gutted by mistake, and would be reinstated. He singled out the one that focuses on monitoring blood lead levels in children. But then ABC’s story was updated to include a different statement from the department that Kennedy leads: “The personnel for that current division, of how it exists now, are not being reinstated. The work will continue elsewhere at HHS. We are consolidating duplicate programs into one place.”

Neither HHS nor the CDC responded to requests for comment.

STAT Plus: At CDC, Trump administration’s job cuts wipe out wide array of specialists

Employees of this environmental health division, however, balked at the idea that their work was redundant. “HHS does not have the receipts to back this up. Public health programs focusing on asthma and lead are not happening elsewhere in HHS,” said one, who spoke on condition of anonymity out of fear of retaliation. The events of this week left them with a kind of emotional whiplash: getting fired, reading a tantalizing clue from Kennedy that they might be un-fired, only for the department to backtrack on his statements. “It was a gut punch to all of us after seeing that glimmer of hope last night,” the employee said.

But the laid-off workers’ most pressing concern centered on the health of the individuals who depended on these programs. As one terminated employee of the National Asthma Control Program put it, “The loss of these services will lead to more emergencies, higher medical bills, worse health outcomes, and even preventable deaths because of asthma.”

Some cracks in the public health infrastructure have been visible already, as in the case of Milwaukee’s lead crisis. Workers worried that such gaps could become even worse in the case of even bigger emergencies. “If another Flint happened, and a state was like, ‘We need help,’ we wouldn’t have any lead poisoning experts at CDC to help them,” another fired employee said.

Other effects may not appear immediately. There are many instances in which a CDC division provides funding to local or statewide organizations or agencies, and some of those programs may still have enough money to continue operations for now. But many are unsure about whether the next installment will come as expected, or whether their work will be cut off because the people who administered those grants — and the very divisions within which they worked — are gone.

The asthma control program is a case in point. Part of its work involves tracking asthma cases and hospitalizations, to help communities understand why flare-ups might be happening and what can be done to keep people breathing. It also provides funding to states and localities, which use the money to send educators into homes to find triggers, support schools in ensuring asthmatic kids are safe, and identify ways that families can afford the medications their children need, among other things.

In other words, the beneficiaries might not know that the federal government is even involved in their child being able to carry an inhaler in class, or being allowed to stay inside during recess on days with air quality bad enough to precipitate an asthma attack. “The National Asthma Control Program is invisible to most families, but they are touched by it through local health departments that provide free asthma services,” said one employee.

General Assignment Reporter

Understand how science, health policy, and medicine shape the world every day

Your data will be processed in accordance with our Privacy Policy and Terms of Service. You may opt out of receiving STAT communications at any time.

STAT Plus: FDA commissioner nominee Heidi Overton keeps opinions to herself in Senate hearing

Biotech
							
			
				
					Biotech
					September 24, 2026				
				
										
						The FDA’s Overton era, and dispatches from Shanghai

Politics
							
			
				
					Politics
					September 24, 2026				
				
										
						Senate finance committee backs Chris Klomp, advancing him to full Senate vote

Pharmalot
							
			
				
					Pharmalot
					September 24, 2026				
				
										
						STAT Plus: Indonesian ruling against ‘patent evergreening’ by pharma industry sends critical message, patient advocates say

The Readout
							
			
				
					The Readout
					September 24, 2026				
				
					 					
						STAT Plus: Kyverna’s cell therapy shows lasting autoimmune benefit