SOURCE: https://www.governor.ny.gov/news/governor-hochul-announces-76-million-strengthen-rural-healthcare-across-new-york-state
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-16 via Chrome (page is JS-walled to curl)
DATED: September 4, 2026, Albany

Governor Hochul Announces $76 Million to Strengthen Rural Healthcare Across New York State
Rural Community Health Integration Initiative Provides 90 Awards to 56 Organizations To Expand Access to Coordinated Care
Historic Investment Will Support Partnerships Among Rural Hospitals, Community Health Centers and Other Providers Across New York
Funding Is Part of New York's More Than $212 Million First-Year Rural Health Transformation Program Award

Governor Kathy Hochul today announced more than $76 million in funding through the Rural Community Health Integration Initiative to support 90 awards to 56 organizations across New York State. The investment is part of the more than $212 million New York State received for the first year of the federal Rural Health Transformation Program ... The awards will strengthen regional partnerships, improve coordination of care and expand access to health and social services for rural New Yorkers.

"Every New Yorker deserves access to high-quality healthcare, no matter where they live," Governor Hochul said. ...

The Rural Community Health Integration Initiative supports partnerships among hospitals, Federally Qualified Health Centers, behavioral health providers and other community-based organizations. Funding may be used for planning and implementation activities that improve care coordination, strengthen regional healthcare networks and help patients more easily access services across the continuum of care.

The Rural Health Transformation Program is a $50 billion federal initiative administered by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services and running from federal fiscal year 2026 through 2030. ...

New York received more than $212 million for the first year of the program. Funding supports four major initiatives, as well as management consulting support, staffing and travel needed to implement and administer the program.

The four initiatives include:
- Rural Community Health Integration Initiative — $77.2 million: ... The initiative includes $76.2 million for the 90 awards announced today and $1 million to increase the number of School-Based Health Centers.
- Strengthening Rural Communities with Technology-Enhanced Primary Care — $30 million
- Rural Roots, Building a Sustainable Rural Healthcare Workforce — $13 million
- Investments in Technology Innovation and Cybersecurity Resilience — $79.5 million

The $76.2 million announced today through the Rural Community Health Integration Initiative includes approximately $22.7 million for planning awards and $53.5 million for implementation awards. An additional $1 million through the initiative will support efforts to increase the number of School-Based Health Centers.

U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Administrator Dr. Mehmet Oz said, "The Trump Administration's Rural Health Transformation Program is helping states like New York develop innovative, locally driven solutions to improve rural Americans' access to high-quality care. These grant awards demonstrate how this historic investment is empowering rural communities to strengthen their health systems, put patients first, and bring better care closer to home."

Participation in the Rural Health Transformation Program and successful implementation of the State's first-year investments will support New York's ability to pursue additional federal funding in future years of the five-year program.

"Learn more about how New York State is transforming rural healthcare here." (links to https://health.ny.gov/facilities/transforming_rural_healthcare/, which carries the "Rural Community Health Integration Awardees List" at .../awardees.htm, retained as nydoh-rchi-awardees.html/.txt; that page is marked "Revised: September 2026".)
