SOURCE: https://www.health.state.ny.us/press/releases/2026/2026-07-01_health_transformation_funding_opportunity.htm
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-16


New York State Department of Health Announces First Rural Health Transformation Program Funding Opportunity
-->
-->
skip to main content
            Your browser does not support iFrames
Navigation menu
Department of
Health
Individuals/Families
COVID-19 Vaccine
Birth, Death, Marriage & Divorce Records
Health Insurance Programs
Consumer Health Care Information
Community Health
Healthy Lifestyles
Health & Safety in the Home, Workplace & Outdoors
Diseases & Conditions
Data & Reports
Health Topics A to Z
Providers/Professionals
Novel Coronavirus
Narcotic Enforcement
EMS
Health Initiatives
Data & Reports
Diseases & Conditions
Patient Resources
Disease Reporting
Clinical Guidelines, Standards & Quality of Care
Permits, Licenses & Certification
Health Commerce System (HCS)
All Health Care Professionals & Patient Safety
Health Topics A to Z
Health Facilities
Compare Health Care Providers
Adult Care Facilities/Assisted Living
Home Care & Hospice
Hospitals & Clinics
New York State Veterans Homes
Nursing Homes
School Based Health Centers
Health Commerce System (HCS)
All Health Care Facilities
Health Topics A to Z
Health Data
Open Health Data
NYS Health Connector
Public Health Science Center
Data & Reports
About Us
About the Department
Related Sites
Health Topics A to Z
Search
 -->
Search:
        -->
You are Here: 
Home Page
>
 2026 Press Releases
>
New York State Department of Health Announces First Rural Health Transformation Program Funding Opportunity
New York State Department of Health Announces First Rural Health Transformation Program Funding Opportunity
Funding guidance and application materials published on Department's 
Transforming Rural Healthcare website
ALBANY, N.Y. (July 1, 2026) - At an event today in Broome County, the New York State Department of Health highlighted its commitment to strengthening rural healthcare and announced the release of the first funding opportunity available through the Rural Health Transformation Program, aimed at supporting and building sustainable healthcare in New York's rural communities.
The Department published 
guidance and application materials
 for the allocated $76.2 million in funding for the Rural Community Health Integration Initiative, a vital part of the Rural Health Transformation Program in New York. The deadline to submit applications is July 14, 2026.
"The Rural Health Transformation Program is an opportunity to build a community-focused healthcare ecosystem that will improve access to high-quality, coordinated care for New Yorkers who live in rural areas," 
State Health Commissioner Dr. James McDonald said.
"This initial round of funding is vital to helping rural hospitals and providers build integrative partnerships, deliver coordinated care and improve health outcomes for the communities they serve." 
The New York State Department of Health, under the leadership of Governor Hochul, remains committed to strengthening rural healthcare through innovative and strategic investments that will build a resilient and sustainable foundation of healthcare to benefit New Yorkers for generations to come.
The purpose of the Rural Community Health Integration initiative is to establish coordinated rural health partnerships that facilitate comprehensive care coordination and enhance patient access to a wide range of providers across the care continuum, addressing both health and social needs.
This funding is the first of multiple potential funding opportunities through the federal Rural Health Transformation Program. The Department was 
awarded $212 million
 for 2026, the first year of an anticipated 5-year award. Participation in the program and uptake of currently available funds will support the availability of future funding opportunities in New York, enabling the Department to implement the state's transformative strategy to support the health and well-being of New Yorkers.
Funding through the program will be used to address workforce shortages, invest in technology innovation and cybersecurity in rural hospitals, and to establish regional, integrated networks linking hospitals, Federally Qualified Health Centers, and behavioral health and other healthcare providers.
Olivia Catalano, Director of Public Health for Broome County, said
, "Public health partnership is essential in this grant. Every county should work closely with their county health department to brainstorm, submit the application and work to meet the needs of their community. Each community has the opportunity to make feasible, measurable, sustainable and transformative changes with this grant. New York has identified 47 out of 62 counties that are classified as rural in this application and eligible to apply. Each community has their own unique needs and this grant gives us the opportunity to address them."
Broome County Health Department Medical Director Dr. Lazarus Gehring said
, "This is a great idea for rural communities like ours. We welcome the assistance for sustainability of health structures in our county."
This project is supported by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) as part of a financial assistance award totaling $212,058,207.80 in Budget Period 1 with 100 percent funded by CMS/HHS. The contents are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily represent the official views of, nor an endorsement, by CMS/HHS, or the U.S. Government
Rural Health Transformation Resources:
Rural Community Health Integration funding guidance
 (PDF)
Rural Community Health Integration application
 (PDF)
Learn more about how New York State is transforming rural healthcare here: 
Transforming Rural Healthcare in New York
.
  Back to top
Revised: July 2026
 -->
Department of Health
General Information
James V. McDonald, M.D., M.P.H., Commissioner
About the Department of Health
Meetings & Webcasts
Employment Opportunities
Wadsworth Center
AIDS Institute
New York State Veterans Homes
Helen Hayes Hospital
NY State of Health (Health Plan Marketplace)
New York State Physician Profile
New York State Public Health Corps
Contact
Councils and Boards
Grants & Funding Opportunities
Laws & Regulations
Press Releases, Reports & Publications
Freedom of Information Law (FOIL)
Forms
Current Issues/Info
Abortion in NYS: Know Your Rights
Bird Flu (Avian Influenza)
Consumer Directed Personal Assistance Program (CDPAP)
Donate Life - Enroll Today!
Drinking Water Protection Program
Ending the Epidemic
Exposure to Smoke from Fires
-->
Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Health
Long COVID
Master Plan for Aging
-->
Measles
Medicaid in New York State
Office of Drug User Health
Polio
Reproductive Health
School Vaccination Fraud
-->
Vaping and E-Cigarettes
Wastewater Surveillance
Help
Help Increasing the Text Size in Your Web Browser
File Formats Used on this Web Site
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
Language Assistance
English
Español (Spanish)
中文 (Chinese)
Русский (Russian)
ইংরেজি (Bengali)
Italiano (Italian)
Kreyòl Ayisyen (Haitian-Creole) 
한국어 (Korean)
יידיש (Yiddish)
العربية (Arabic)
Polski (Polish)
Français (French)
اُردُو (Urdu)
Website Language Translations
CONNECT WITH US
FACEBOOK
X
YOUTUBE
PINTEREST
-->
INSTAGRAM
FLICKR
LINKEDIN
THREADS
BLUESKY
            Your browser does not support iFrames
