SOURCE FILE: asco_org_news_initiatives_policy_news_analysis_house_appropriations_bill.html
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-26 via curl
DATE: 

House Appropriators Move to Maintain Federal Funding Levels for NIH, NCI in 2026 - ASCO
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
  
  
    Meetings & EducationMeetings & EducationResearch & DataPractice & PatientsCareer DevelopmentNews & InitiativesGet Involved Home /

House Appropriators Move to Maintain Federal Funding Levels for NIH, NCI in 2026House Appropriators Move to Maintain Federal Funding Levels for NIH, NCI in 2026

ASCO urges lawmakers to continue bipartisan support of cancer researchASCO urges lawmakers to continue bipartisan support of cancer research

Update: The House Appropriations Committee passed the 2026 Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies appropriations bill on Sepetember 10, 2025.

The U.S. House Appropriations Committee is set to vote today on a bill that would maintain current funding levels for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and National Cancer Institute (NCI) as part of its Fiscal Year (FY) 2026 Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies appropriations bill.

The bill would fund the NIH at $46.9 billion, including funding for all 27 NIH institutes and centers, and provide $7.272 billion for the NCI. The allocations are up slightly over current base funding levels; however, both are less than what the Senate Appropriations Committee passed in its 2026 funding bill.

The House bill, however, cuts funding for the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health (ARPA-H) from $1.5 billion to $945 million next year.

A statement from Association for Clinical Oncology Board Chair Lynn M. Schuchter, MD, FASCO, follows:

“Today’s vote offers lawmakers a chance to demonstrate their continued bipartisan support for investing in the essential work that brings us closer to conquering cancer.

“We appreciate the committee prioritizing NIH and NCI in their FY 26 funding bill. Federally funded cancer research is the cornerstone of more than 50 years of improvements in cancer prevention, early detection and treatments and a source of hope for millions of patients.

“The more than $500 million cut to ARPA-H included in the bill could stymie innovative work by greatly restricting the resources available for the high-risk, high-reward research the agency was created to conduct.

“America’s remarkable legacy of scientific advances in cancer has been powered by federal research dollars. To ensure continued progress and avoid forfeiting future breakthroughs, ASCO urges lawmakers to work together and provide robust federal cancer funding in any final FY 2026 funding agreement.”