SOURCE FILE: buffalonews_com_opinion_editorial_article_310703bc_00d9_11f0_a13b_d31165.html
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-26 via curl
DATE: 

NIH cuts will hurt UB, Roswell and the WNY economy
            
    
    
        
    
    
        
    
        
    
        
    
        
    
        
    
        
    
        
    
        
    
        
    
        
    
        
    
        
    
        
    
        
    
    
            
            
        
        
	
	
	
        Skip to main contentSkip to main content
        
        
        
    
    
    
    
    
        
        
    
    
        
                
                You are the owner of this article.
                
                     Edit Article
                    
                         Add New Article
                    
                    Close
                
            
                
                You have permission to edit this article.
                
                     Edit
                    Close
                
            
        
    
    
    
        
            
                
        
        
    
            
            
                
            
                
                    
                        
                    
                    
                        63°
                    
                    
                
            
                
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
        
        
     Log In

Site
                            Search
                         
                        
                    
                
                
                    
        
        
        
     AI Answers

News
                
                                
                                    Local

Obituaries
                
                                
                                    Featured Obituaries

Opinion
                
                                
                                    Submit a letter

Sports
                
                                
                                    Bills

Gusto
                
                                
                                    Event Calendar

Lifestyles
                
                                
                                    Announcements

Join the community
                
                                
                                    News tip

Print Edition
                
                                
                                    E-edition

Special Sections
                
                                
                                    Buffalo Magazine

Buy & Sell
                
                                
                                    Place an Ad

Customer Service
                
                                
                                    Activate

Site
                            Search
                         
                        
                    
                
                
                    
        
        
        
     AI Answers

Site
                            Search
                         
                        
                    
                
                
                    
        
        
        
     AI Answers

Javascript is required to use this website.

×
                    
        
            
            
                
            
            
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                
                                    
                    
                        
                        Derek Gee

Tom Melendy, associate professor of microbiology, immunology and biochemistry at the UB Jacobs School of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, talks about the devastating impacts, both short term and long term, if federal research funding is cut at levels that are proposed by the Trump administr…

Frederick E. Kowal, president of United University Professions, left, speaks as Tom Melendy, UB associate professor of Microbiology, Immunology and Biochemistry, right, looks on during a news conference.  Both are right to be concerned about NIH funding cuts.

People are also reading…

Did John Murphy's criticism of Joe Brady cost him a press box seat? | Alan Pergament

Before Bills opener, ‘Operation Bootleg Blitz’ netted 4 arrests, seizure of counterfeit items

PETA says Buffalo Bills should be ‘ashamed’ of using bison calf as ‘pregame prop’

The truck driver told customs agents he was alone. An X-ray showed otherwise

Troopers identify driver in fatal rollover crash in Rushford

Outgoing WNY lawmaker billed state for use of state car, gas in addition to travel costs

Around the NFL: Is the Bills' schedule as difficult as expected?

Driver killed in rollover crash in Rushford

5 up, 5 down for Bills through the NFL season's first two weeks

Starbucks closing two local stores in nationwide cutback

Investigation into pollution widens on Niagara Falls’ Cayuga Island

After 'transformational gift,' Buffalo General hospital to be renamed for Scott Bieler

Josh Allen appeared three steps ahead of the Lions. The film tells a deeper story | Jim Kubiak

Catholic Health eliminating 40 positions, citing evolving patient needs and sustainability

For the second time this month, a West Seneca police chase ended in a fatal crash

UB scientists warn of 'dangers' from Trump's plan to cut federal medical research dollars

If a 15% cap was instituted on indirect costs, the NIH claims it could save $4 billion a year. But research groups say the cuts would slow medical progress.

UB pharmacy researchers get grants to fight antibiotic resistance

Dr. Yanan “Nancy” Zhao, who joined UB’s School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences in March, is working on creating a novel antibiotic that can attack gram-negative bacteria, which cause serious infections such as pneumonia, bloodstream infections and meningitis.

UB professor gets grant for bacteria-fighting 'cocktail'

UB assistant professor Nicholas Smith has been awarded a five-year, $3.6 million research grant to work with bacteriophages, viruses that infect and replicate within bacteria, to develop the best combinations of phages to fight resistant infections.

Catch the latest in Opinion

Get opinion pieces, letters and editorials sent directly to your inbox weekly!

Email notifications are only sent once a day, and only if there are new matching items.

UB professor on potential impacts of cuts to federal research funding

Tom Melendy, associate professor of microbiology, immunology and biochemistry at the UB Jacobs School of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, tal…

Trump cuts to federal research grants blasted by UB, elected leaders

Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, D-N.Y., decried the efforts to cut up to $4 billion from grants awarded by the National Institutes of Health as illeg…

Frederick E. Kowal, president of United University Professions, left, speaks as Tom Melendy, UB associate professor of Microbiology, Immunology and Biochemistry, right, looks on during a news conference.  Both are right to be concerned about NIH funding cuts.

© Copyright 2026
                        The Buffalo News, 726 Exchange St. Buffalo, NY 14210

A Lee Enterprises, Incorporated newspaper. Majority shareholder: David Hoffmann, Hoffmann Media Group.

Terms of Use
                        |
                        Privacy Policy
                        |
                        Advertising Terms of Use
                        |
                            Privacy Choices
                            |
                            Cookie Preferences

Powered by BLOX Content Management System from bloxdigital.com.

Get up-to-the-minute news sent straight to your device.

Account processing issue - the email address may already exist

Must be at least 8 characters, not contain repeating characters (e.g., 111), and not contain sequential numbers (e.g., 123).

Your account has been registered, and you are now logged in.

Check your email for details.

Invalid password or account does not exist

Submitting this form below will send a message to your email with a link to change your password.

An email message containing instructions on how to reset your password has been sent to the email address listed on your account.

No promotional rates found.

Purchase Gift
                            Purchase Access

Must be at least 8 characters, not contain repeating characters (e.g., 111), and not contain sequential numbers (e.g., 123).

Secure transaction.
            Secure transaction. Cancel anytime.

Your gift purchase was successful!
                                        Your purchase was successful, and you are now logged in.

A receipt was sent to your email.