SOURCE FILE: cancer_gov_about_nci_budget_.html
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-26 via curl
DATE: 

Budget and Appropriations - NCI
    
        
    
    
    
    
    



    
  
                    
                    
  
        
      Skip to main content
    
    
      
    


  
  




  




	
		
			    


		
		

      



  
    
      
      
    
    
      Print    
  
  
    
        
        
    
    
      Email    
  


	



	
		  
  
    



  

  

		
			
				  


	
		NCI Budget and Appropriations

NCI receives its budget from the United States Congress through the annual federal appropriations process for the Department of Health and Human Services and the National Institutes of Health (NIH). The NCI Office of Budget and Finance supports the NCI director and senior staff on budget-related activities.

What is NCI’s current fiscal year 2026 (FY26) budget?

The Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2026 (H.R. 1748) provides NCI with a total appropriation of $7.35 billion, an increase of $128 million compared to the FY25 enacted level.

Each fiscal year, NCI prepares several budget-related publications and resources.

NCI Annual Plan and Professional Judgment Budget: This annual document outlines the optimum funding needed to make the most rapid progress against cancer. It is typically published over a year in advance of the fiscal year it outlines.

NCI Congressional Justification: This document outlines NCI’s mission, goals, and objectives for the coming fiscal year and provides comparative data and analysis for the previous, current, and proposed budgets. The Congressional Justification is part of the President’s annual budget request for all federal agencies.

NCI Budget Fact Book: This interactive resource summarizes the distribution of the previous fiscal year's budget among the various research programs and funding mechanisms. It also includes certain NCI funding policies related to research grant awards.

Where does NCI’s funding come from?

As a federal agency, NCI receives its budget through the federal budget and appropriations process. Each year, the President submits an annual budget request to Congress, which outlines proposed funding levels for federal agencies and the Administration’s policy priorities. Congress has the ultimate authority to determine federal spending and must pass appropriations legislation to provide agencies with funding. In some cases, Congress also specifies the amount of funding that may be used for particular initiatives (e.g., Childhood Cancer Data Initiative), and the period of time in which those funds may be spent. The federal government's fiscal year runs from October 1 to September 30.

What steps are involved in the budget process?

The graphic below outlines each of the major steps in NCI’s funding process.

Enlarge Image
      
    
  



The federal budget process involves the preparation of separate reports and requests that relate to each other in varying degrees.

Each year NCI prepares and submits the NCI Annual Plan and Professional Judgment Budget directly to the President and Congress for review. The Annual Plan and Professional Judgment Budget is unique to NCI, and this process is required by the National Cancer Act of 1971. The Annual Plan and Professional Judgment Budget outlines NCI’s research priorities and provides a high-level overview of optimum funding needed to advance cancer research. NCI typically publishes over a year in advance of the fiscal year.

The White House Office of Management and Budget (OMB) prepares the President’s budget proposal in coordination with all federal agencies. The President submits the annual budget request to Congress for consideration.

NCI also prepares the Congressional Justification, in coordination with NIH, HHS, and OMB. The Congressional Justification provides a detailed budget request and is incorporated into the President’s budget proposal. It outlines NCI’s mission, goals, and objectives for the coming fiscal year and provides comparative data and analysis for the previous, current, and proposed budgets.

If an appropriations bill is not passed by the start of the fiscal year (October 1), Congress may enact a continuing resolution, which provides federal agencies with short-term funding, typically at the pre-existing appropriations level. Congress may pass multiple continuing resolutions until an agreement is reached on a final budget for the remainder of the fiscal year. If a budget agreement is not reached and no continuing resolution is passed, the government faces a shutdown.

How does NCI spend its budget?

As the leader of the cancer research enterprise, collectively known as the National Cancer Program, and the largest funder of cancer research in the world, NCI manages a broad range of research, training, and information dissemination activities that reach across the entire country. NCI leadership relies on advisory committees, external scientific experts, and NCI’s subject matter experts to provide objective advice regarding scientific priorities, development of extramural program initiatives, future direction of NCI’s intramural and clinical trials programs, and the Frederick National Laboratory for Cancer Research.

Research project grants make up the largest portion of NCI’s budget. These are awards made to institutions or organizations to support discrete, specified projects to be performed by named investigators in areas representing their specific interest and competencies (e.g., R01, R37). In the grant-making process, NCI relies heavily on rigorous scientific peer review. Learn more about NCI’s grants policies and process.

Centers and Specialized Programs of Research Excellence (SPOREs) include grants for NCI-Designated Cancer Centers (e.g., P20/P30 grants), as well as SPOREs that focus on a specific organ site, on a group of related cancers, or other factors.

National Research Service Awards (NRSA) is a trainee award program that helps ensure that highly trained scientists are available in adequate numbers and in appropriate research areas to carry out the Nation's biomedical, behavioral, and clinical research agenda.

Research and development (R&D) contracts include the Frederick National Laboratory for Cancer Research, the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results Program (SEER), and others.

Other research includes the following grants: NCI’s grant support for extramural clinical trials networks such as the National Clinical Trials Network, the NCI Community Oncology Research Program, and NCI-supported early-phase clinical trials networks, as well as career programs (K Awards), cancer education, and Predoctoral to Postdoctoral Fellow Transition Awards.

Intramural research funding makes up about 18% of the NCI budget. Intramural researchers at NCI conduct basic, pre-clinical, clinical, genomic, and population-based research.

Major areas of NCI’s work that span more than one of the categories listed above include other support for clinical trials, training and career development, and basic science. These efforts are funded through multiple mechanisms and approaches, including intramural research, extramural research, national networks, and research project grants.

How does NCI make spending decisions?

When making spending decisions, NCI leaders must balance competing priorities, commitments, and opportunities to ensure continued progress toward its mission. NCI’s external advisory committees provide objective and expert advice on coordination of the institute’s activities. The institute does not use predetermined targets for specific disease areas or research categories to make spending decisions.

In the grant-making process, NCI relies heavily on scientific peer review. The first level of review is carried out by a Scientific Review Group composed primarily of non-federal scientists who review research proposals and judge them on factors such as:

importance of the research (significance, innovation)

rigor and feasibility (approach)

expertise and resources (investigator, environment)

The National Cancer Advisory Board provides the second level of review. This intensive approach, in line with NIH's peer review process, ensures that NCI supports the best science aligned with its mission.

Research proposals are also further evaluated by NCI’s scientific leaders, including the NCI Director, who provides final approval. NCI will also continue to prioritize early-stage investigators and give special consideration to applications that fill a significant gap in the cancer research portfolio or propose an especially novel or promising scientific approach.

How do NCI's funding decisions address human-based research approaches and animal studies?

In alignment with an NIH initiative announced in 2025, NCI is committed to reducing animal use in cancer research and expanding innovative, human-based science. Where scientifically valid and justified, funding opportunities may place special emphasis on these human-based approaches.

Although animal studies have played an important role in advancing biomedical science, emerging human-relevant technologies—such as organoids, computational models, and real-world data integration—offer powerful new tools that can complement or even replace animal models.

Human-based studies are particularly valuable in cancer research because individual cancers can look and behave differently based on a person's genetics, environmental exposures, individual tumor microenvironments, and immune responses. As a result, human-based science can provide more accurate insights into tumor biology and treatment response and safety, improving the likelihood that discoveries will translate into effective therapies for people with cancer.

While funding opportunities may highlight human-based research approaches, NCI will continue to fund research using laboratory animals when it is scientifically appropriate, well-justified, and conducted with proper animal welfare oversight. When animal models are proposed, applicants must clearly justify their necessity and use the minimum number of animals needed for rigorous and reproducible research.

For more information from NIH, visit How Does the NIH Initiative to Prioritize Human-Based Research Affect Research Proposing the Use of Laboratory Animals?

What is NCI’s budget history?

Sustained increases to NCI’s budget are also needed due to inflation. NCI’s budget (the dollar amount) and the value of NCI’s budget (how much research it can afford to support) have changed over time. A $1 million investment in research today is not worth the same $1 million investment as in the past. In other words, research has become more expensive over time. NIH uses a price index called the Biomedical Research and Development Price Index to quantify how much a budget must change to maintain purchasing power.

NCI’s overall enacted budget for the last 20 years is presented below. The enacted appropriation levels do not include potential adjustments such as rescissions, sequestrations, supplemental funding, or Secretary's transfers that may have impacted the amount available for NCI expenditure.

Fiscal years 2017 through 2023 include funding appropriated through the 21st Century Cures Act, which authorized $1.8 billion in funding for the Cancer Moonshot over seven years. NCI’s base appropriations include funding for the Childhood Cancer Data Initiative (CCDI), $50 million per year, proposed for 10 years starting in 2020, and $30 million for the Childhood Cancer Survivorship, Treatment, Access, and Research (STAR) Act and the STAR Reauthorization Act (currently authorized through 2028).