SOURCE FILE: grantwitness_org_nih_updates_2026_06_23_overdue_funding.html
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-26 via curl
DATE: 

Overdue Grant Renewals at NIH and AHRQ • Grant Witness
		
		
	

	
		 Skip to main content We have a new site and would love your feedback

At Grant Witness, we have reported on the crisis in science funding at
the National Institutes of Health by tracking grant
terminations and the slowdown of new
funding. Another aspect of the crisis is
the increasing number of grants that are not being renewed on time,
which we first observed a year
ago and have continued to grow,
leaving researchers in limbo as these funding delays disrupt biomedical
research.

Most projects funded by NIH for more than one year are renewed each
year. NIH approves projects for multiple years, and each year’s funding
is released as a “non-competing continuation” following the submission
of standard progress reports. Some delays in this process are
inevitable, or are due to real issues or slow management by the
researchers themselves. NIH processes about 50,000 renewals each year.
Before 2025, less than 1,000 were renewed more than 60 days after the
end of their previous budget period.

Now there is a massive slowdown in renewals across NIH. 3,672 projects faced gaps of 60 days or more since Jan 20, 2025.[1] 407 are currently waiting for renewal more than 60 days after the end of
their previous budget period. Some have been waiting much longer.

NIH only kept 912 awards waiting more than 60 days in FY 2023. Last year
the number was 2.9 times as many. If 2026 continues at its current pace
there will be 2.6 times a many. By any measure, more researchers and
projects are facing limbo and uncertainty than before the Trump
administration
(Figure 1).

These delays are only the latest disruption and uncertainty for many
NIH-funded researchers. Among those currently waiting for renewal are 24
whose grants were previously terminated and restored, or were part of
the institutional funding freezes in 2025. Last year, 39 grants were ultimately terminated rather than
renewed after waiting long periods to learn their fate.

Unlike the clear targeting of topics such as health equity for
termination, and the halting of payments to specific institutions, we
have so far identified no clear pattern in the type of grant or
recipient facing these delays and gaps between funding years. Elizabeth
Ginexi has detailed the new layers and political
review put in place to scrutinize all grants, including renewals. Whether or
not a grant runs afoul of the administration’s ideological tests, the
additional screening processes can slow it down well past the point of
disruption. The loss of over 20% of NIH
staff surely is also contributing.

There are considerable differences across NIH institutes. Before 2025,
the typical institute had 2% of its renewals delayed by 60 days or more,
and the worst had 6%. Last year, over 15% of renewals from the National
Institues on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA), Minority Health and
Health Disparities (NIMHD), and Genome Research (NHGRI) were that late.
So far this year, the worst offenders are the Fogarty International
Center (FIC, 42%), the Center for Complementary and Integrative Health
(NCCIH, 33%), and the Heart, Blood, and Lung institute (NHLBI, 23%)
(Figure 2).

NIH’s delays pale in comparison to those of the Agency for Healthcare
Research and Quality, which has had its staff gutted and has not funded
any new awards this
year.
Only 15 AHRQ grant renewals have been issued this fiscal year, leaving 145 stuck waiting for renewals that may never come, in an agency
that has typically only issued about 500 grants, new or renewals, per
year.

As always, we are only able to keep on top of these developments due to
the vigilance of researchers. If your grant has been terminated,
suspended, frozen, delayed, or otherwise disrupted, please report! You
will find reporting forms for many agencies under “Submit” at the top of
the page.

We identify overdue awards as those that have with budget end date more
than 60 days in the past but with a project end date in the future and
no termination or subsequent renewal in the NIH RePORTER
database. We exclude student fellowship
grants (“F” series). Many of these end early when students graduate or
recipients change institutions, and those are indistinguishable from
overdue renewals in public data. Nonetheless, these delays impact
students and trainees as
well. We also
exclude supplements and subprojects.

Reach out to the Grant Witness team.