United States Senate
HEALTH, EDUCATION, LABOR AND PENSIONS COMMITTEE
Bernard Sanders, Ranking Member
Minority Staff Report
February 2, 2026
Putting Cures Out of Reach: Trump's National Institutes of Health
I. Executive Summary
Since taking office, Trump has repeatedly promised to help American patients.
Trump has said he is “committed to restoring a gold standard for science.”1 He has claimed that
“we’ve made tremendous strides in cancer research, far more than anyone has done. And we
have the greatest minds, the greatest people working on it.”2 He has promised “we're going to
defeat childhood cancer once and for all.”3 He has vowed to “end the chronic disease epidemic.”4
Trump has also claimed he would help patients by lowering prescription drugs prices. In May, he
announced a new executive order: “My administration will secure what we’re calling most
favored nations drug pricing. The principle is simple, whatever the lowest price paid for a drug in
other developed countries, that is the price that Americans will pay.”5 In August, Trump said he
would fire “every single one” of his top officials if they did not “have drug costs that drop like a
rock.”6 He later said he would cut prices by “1,200, 1,300 and 1,400, 1,500%.”7
Senator Bernie Sanders, Ranking Member of the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions
Committee (HELP Committee) directed his staff to examine the record of the U.S. National
Institutes of Health—the world’s leading funder of medical research—to assess Trump’s claims.
Key Findings
• Under Trump, NIH has cut research into new treatments and cures.
o NIH has terminated or frozen 116 cancer research grants ($273 million), 65
Alzheimer's research grants ($94 million), 68 diabetes grants ($83 million), and 71
1 Restoring Gold Standard Science, The White House (May 23, 2025), https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-
actions/2025/05/restoring-gold-standard-science/.
2 Remarks on Signing an Executive Order on Unlocking Cures for Pediatric Cancer With Artificial Intelligence and an Exchange With
Reporters, The American Presidency Project (Sep. 30, 2025), https://www.presidency.ucsb.edu/documents/remarks-signing-executive-
order-unlocking-cures-for-pediatric-cancer-with-artificial.
3 Id.
4 The Inaugural Address, The White House (Jan. 20, 2025), https://www.whitehouse.gov/remarks/2025/01/the-inaugural-address/.
5 “Fact Sheet: President Donald J. Trump Announces Actions to Get Americans the Best Prices in the World for Prescription Drugs.”
The White House (2025). https://www.whitehouse.gov/fact-sheets/2025/07/fact-sheet-president-donald-j-trumpannounces-actions-to-get-
americans-the-best-prices-in-the-world-for-prescription-drugs/
6 “President Trump Participates in a MAHA Commission Event.” The White House via YouTube (2025).
www.youtube.com/watch?v=dDkYJxE9WTc
7 Tami Luhby. “Trump is promising to slash drug prices by 1,500%. Here’s what’s really happening.” CNN (2025).
https://www.cnn.com/2025/08/11/business/prescription-drug-prices-trump
1



Researchers at the Duke Specialized Program of Research Excellence in Brain Cancer in
Durham, North Carolina have lost nearly $20 million. These grants help translate discoveries
into treatments for brain cancer, the leading cause of cancer-related death in children under 15.17
At the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, Texas, $9 million in
ovarian cancer research has been terminated. Ovarian cancer kills approximately 13,000
American women annually18 and has a 5-year survival rate of just 50 percent.19
Other prominent examples of grants terminated include:
• The Pediatric Brain Tumor Consortium (PBTC), which has operated for 26 years
conducting Phase I and II trials for children, has been defunded effective May 2026.20
Enrollment in ongoing trials has been paused. The National Brain Tumor Society urged
NIH to “sustain the critical function and work of the PBTC for our most vulnerable
patients,” pointing out that, “[p]ediatric brain tumors receive less private investment than
other childhood cancers and remain one of the most scientifically and clinically
challenging diseases to treat. This field cannot afford to lose vital capacity, expertise, or
momentum just as the field of neuro-oncology is starting to realize the potential to
develop highly-targeted treatments, advance cellular and other immunotherapies, and
evaluate medical devices for children with aggressive brain tumors.”21
• NIH also suspended research into T-cell-based cancer immunotherapy research
conducted by Cole Peters, a UCLA Scientist and UAW Local 4811 member in Los
Angeles, California. While the funding was eventually reinstated, the delay and constant
uncertainty forced him to scale back projects and prepare to end his research
prematurely.22
Alzheimer’s research
Nearly 7 million Americans live with Alzheimer’s disease.23 The administration has terminated
or frozen 65 Alzheimer’s grants totaling $94.3 million. In addition, funding has been halted for
14 of the 35 NIH-funded Alzheimer’s Disease Research Centers, totaling approximately $65
million.24 The cancellation of National Advisory Council on Aging meetings delayed
consideration of approximately 1,000 grants worth an estimated $600 million.25
After a decade of bipartisan investments that increased Alzheimer’s funding, researchers were
beginning to make progress on new drugs, new diagnostic tools, and a better understanding of
the disease. The grants terminated by this administration helped fuel this progress. Now that
work has stopped.
17 https://braintumor.org/brain-tumors/about-brain-tumors/brain-tumor-facts/
18 https://ocrahope.org/for-patients/gynecologic-cancers/ovarian-cancer/ovarian-cancer-statistics/
19 https://www.cancerresearchuk.org/about-cancer/ovarian-cancer/survival
20 https://www.statnews.com/2025/09/15/pediatric-brain-tumor-consortium-disbanding-funding-trump/
21 This was not included in the Grant Witness database. https://braintumor.org/news/protecting-vital-funding-clinical-trial-opportunities-
for-children-with-brain-tumors-%EF%BF%BC/
22 This was not included in the Grant Witness database. American Assoc. of Univ. Prof. v. Trump, Case No. 25-cv-07864 (D.Cal., Nov.
14, 2025)
23 https://www.alz.org/news/2024/new-alzheimers-association-report-reveals-top-stressors-caregivers
24 https://www.cnn.com/2025/04/24/health/alzheimers-research-nih-funding
25 https://www.baldwin.senate.gov/news/press-releases/senator-baldwin-exposes-trump-administration-halt-on-lifesaving-research-
despite-court-orders
5
A 35-year longitudinal follow-up study at Johns Hopkins, involving decades of continuous data
collection, examined how early-life factors predict dementia risk. This kind of long-term data is
irreplaceable and essential for developing prevention strategies. Terminating this grant does not
just stop future research. It also wastes the millions already invested and destroys scientific
infrastructure that took a generation to build.
A physician-scientist developing new Alzheimer’s therapies at a major Midwestern medical
school saw two major NIH grants end in the past 18 months, despite applications for funding
renewals being well reviewed, and the physician-scientist has been forced to shrink their lab
substantially and turn down qualified trainees. According to the physician-scientist, “After 7
years of MD/PhD training, 4 years of Neurology residency, 2 years of fellowship training, and 13
years of hard work as a Principal Investigator with more than 100 publications and several
impactful discoveries, I am very concerned that I will not be able to continue in this line of work
much longer if things do not change.”
Diabetes research
Over 38 million Americans live with diabetes, and 100 million have prediabetes.26 Despite
Secretary Kennedy’s “Make America Healthy Again” rhetoric, NIH has terminated or frozen 68
diabetes research grants totaling $83.1 million.
The NIH cut funding for Dr. Lisa Goldman Rosas’ “Food is Medicine” intervention at Stanford
University in California, which tested whether addressing food insecurity could improve diabetes
management among Hispanic patients. Hispanic households face food insecurity at nearly double
the national rate.27 This practical, community-based intervention showed early signs of success
before funding was cut.
Dr. Kevin Hall, one of the leading researchers on ultra-processed foods and obesity, resigned
from NIH in April 2025 after 21 years.28 Hall accused the administration of censoring his
research findings because they did not appear to fully support the preconceived narratives of
HHS leadership. New York University Professor Marion Nestle called Hall’s 2019 study on
ultra-processed foods “the most important study in nutrition that’s been done since vitamins.”29
Other prominent examples of terminated grants include the Diabetes Prevention Program
Outcomes Study, a 30-year landmark study tracking 1,700 patients that demonstrated a 58
percent reduction in type 2 diabetes risk through lifestyle changes, was also terminated in March
2025 and restored in July 2025.30
Heart disease research
Heart disease is the leading cause of death in America: it kills 700,000 Americans every year.31
The administration has terminated or frozen 71 heart disease grants worth $111.3 million. The
26 https://www.cdc.gov/pcd/issues/2025/24_0273.htm
27 https://www.usda.gov/about-usda/news/blog/no-mas-hambre-community-call-action
28 https://www.cbsnews.com/news/kevin-hall-rfk-jr-ultra-processed-food-nih-censorship/
29 https://www.statnews.com/2024/09/11/ultra-processed-foods-health-nih-research-kevin-hall-controlled-trials/
30 This was not included in the Grant Witness database. https://dppos.bsc.gwu.edu/web/dppos/restoredppos
31 https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/fastats/leading-causes-of-death.htm
6


panels without the range of expertise needed to make informed funding decisions on grant
applications.37
III. The NIH Is Letting Politics Override Science
The destruction of American medical research goes beyond terminated grants. The
administration is dismantling the human infrastructure that makes world-leading science
possible. Since January 2025, the administration has fired thousands of experienced employees,
retaliated against whistleblowers, and replaced career scientists with political appointees.
Career scientists, who have long run the NIH, have in some instances been replaced by political
appointees with no scientific credentials. These individuals now have critical roles in scientific
decisions. As of January 2026, 15 of the NIH’s 27 institutes and centers are without permanent
directors and are instead run by acting leaders.38
The Bethesda Declaration
On June 9, 2025, over 340 current and recently terminated NIH employees signed an open letter
to Director Bhattacharya, titled the “Bethesda Declaration.”39 The declaration catalogued
alarming actions being taken at NIH, including halting peer-reviewed grants, terminating
international collaborations, and firing hundreds of personnel. It accused NIH leadership of
prioritizing political ideology over safety and proper stewardship of taxpayer funds.
In November 2025, one of the main authors of the declaration, Dr. Jenna Norton, was placed on
administrative leave. An anonymous HHS official called her a “radical leftist” as justification for
that decision. As Dr. Jenna Norton recently shared with HELP Minority staff, nothing has
“meaningfully changed” since the declaration, and the decisions made by NIH leadership have
been “incredibly damaging” for science.
Banned Words
According to interviews with NIH staff, NIH is using a list of banned words to determine which
research receives extra scrutiny and is eligible for continued funding.40
On December 12, 2025, NIH issued “Staff Guidance – Reviewing Grants for Priority
Alignment” that transforms grant review from a scientific process into an ideological filter. All
funding announcements, applications, active grants, and intramural research are now reviewed
using a text analysis tool that scans for terms (e.g. health equity, gender, Latinx, minority,
diversity, climate change, vaccine) that may be associated with misalignment with administrative
priorities. Per NIH staff, use of these words triggers an enhanced review. Grants are categorized
as acceptable, possibly modifiable, or unacceptable—with the last category triggering
termination. NIH staff provided the list of banned words and image of the enhanced review
recommendations based on the inclusion of those terms to HELP Minority staff (see Appendix).
37 https://www.statnews.com/2026/01/22/nih-advisory-council-vacancies-raise-questions-funding-politicization/
38 https://www.fiercebiotech.com/biotech/nih-loses-yet-another-leader-heart-lung-and-blood-director-exits
39 https://www.standupforscience.net/bethesda-declaration
40 NIH Staff Guidance “Reviewing Grants for Priority Alignment”
9
The new guidelines “open the door to the politicization of NIH research,” said Dr. Jenna Norton.
“Peer review is fundamental and makes sure we’re doing the best science. If you’re going to
ignore that, the political appointee gets to make the final call.”41
IV. Loss of Researchers
The politicization of NIH has destroyed some researchers’ faith in the institution and in their
ability to continue their work. Researchers face a culture of suppression, retaliation, and fear. As
one biomedical researcher who lost her NIH grant stated,
What hurt the most was not the financial impact on my lab, but the
shattering of a long-held belief that biomedical research was rooted
in a true meritocracy. I know the system is not perfect, but until
now I felt I had some control over my outcomes through hard
work. Today, I see deeper systemic issues, and for the first time, I
feel afraid to speak up in a country I believed honored free speech
and authenticity.42
Chaos and uncertainty from funding cuts
The chaos of NIH cuts has created substantial instability for researchers.
Funding awards have been delayed. Howard Weiner, a leading neurologist, and Laura Cox, a
leading microbiologist, submitted a research proposal to develop probiotic treatments for
Alzheimer’s March 10, 2025. After 10 months, a decision on research funding has still not been
made.
The impact of NIH’s chaos extends beyond the research to the researchers themselves. One
researcher who studies DNA and how it affects cancer and infertility was impacted by an NIH
grant cut.43 They stated, “Without the [research grant], I again doubt that I will ever have my
own lab. In the time between being notified of receiving my award and being notified of losing
my award, I aged out of eligibility for many other funding opportunities.”
A researcher who is focused on disabilities stemming from neurological impairments expressed
similar feelings.44 As they stated, “My mind is filled with constant anxiety, and it’s not just about
my own well-being; it’s about the entire future of my lab. To me, the joy has been sucked out of
research, leaving only stress, anxiety, and difficult decisions.”
Another researcher, Rene, who focuses on mRNA and molecules that impact intellectual
disabilities, autism, and mental health disorders, lost grant funding. She has been left in a
“precarious spot” and unsure if she will be “able to pursue a career that I have trained almost 15
years for.”
41 https://kffhealthnews.org/news/article/nih-grants-trump-political-appointees-agenda-alignment-peer-review/
42 https://www.27unihted.org/biohealthbeats/sequoias-story
43 https://www.27unihted.org/biohealthbeats/ss-story
44 https://www.27unihted.org/biohealthbeats/as-story
10
Chaos from arbitrary federal firings
In mid-February 2025, approximately 1,200-1,500 NIH employees were terminated over a single
weekend, with the administration targeting “probationary” employees—which includes new
hires but also long-serving employees who recently accepted promotions.45 The layoffs were
largely indiscriminate and included various support staff and technicians who make it possible
for NIH to conduct lifesaving research.46
The loss of staff has slowed down NIH productivity. Staff reported working overtime to try and
make up the difference, but that it was impossible to keep up. One anonymous worker shared
with HELP Minority staff that firing key staff at the National Institute of Neurological Disorders
and Stroke has jeopardized research to help people with pain and curb opioid addiction.
NIH workers have also personally suffered from the indiscriminate firings and constant changes
at NIH. Staff shared stories of their lives being upended, as a result of the chaos at NIH. “For as
long as I can remember, I have wanted nothing more than to serve – to dedicate my skills, my
energy, and my life to protecting public health. I never sought personal gain, only the chance to
make a difference. And now, that calling has been stripped away,” one worker said.
Even those workers who were not fired are feeling significant stress and anxiety that they could
be next. As the workers shared with HELP Minority staff: “I don’t think I will ever feel stable in
this job again during the duration of this current administration.”
Chaos is leading to brain drain
With the level of chaos introduced by the administration, some researchers are leaving the
United States. During the first three months of 2025, U.S. scientists applying for positions abroad
increased by 32 percent, with applications to Canada rising 41 percent.47 A Nature survey found
75 percent of U.S.-based scientists are considering leaving the country—rising to nearly 80
percent among early-career researchers.48
International institutions are actively recruiting U.S. talent. The European Union launched a
€500 million “Choose Europe” initiative49 and doubled start-up funding for foreign researchers
establishing labs. France’s Aix Marseille University created programs specifically for U.S.
scientists affected by federal grant cancellations,50 and Portuguese institutes report tenfold
increases in inquiries from U.S. junior faculty.51 China has similarly ramped up recruitment,
offering robust funding packages to attract displaced researchers.52
While some researchers are being forced out of the country, others are being forced out of the
field entirely. Erica, a biomedical science communicator, “know[s] several college students who
were training for careers in biomedical science or public health and have changed their majors to
45 https://www.npr.org/sections/shots-health-news/2025/02/14/nx-s1-5297913/cdc-layoffs-hhs-trump-doge
46 Id.
47 https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-025-01216-7
48 https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-025-00938-y
49 https://www.solarpaces.org/as-the-us-cuts-scientific-talent-europe-launches-an-initiative-to-attract-it/
50 https://www.univ-amu.fr/en/public/actualites/safe-place-science-aix-marseille-universite-ready-welcome-american-scientists
51 https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-025-01567-1
52 https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-025-01750-4
11

The NIH Clinical Center is the nation’s largest hospital devoted entirely to clinical research. Its
patient numbers have been collapsing. Daily patient census at the NIH Clinical Center has
dropped from over 110 patients to approximately 60, a 45 percent decline. Cancer trial
participation has fallen by 20 percent.57
The cuts have led to devastating consequences. Natalie Phelps was a 43-year-old mother of two
with Stage IV colorectal cancer. After surgery, radiation, three liver surgeries, and 48 rounds of
chemotherapy, she enrolled in an NIH immunotherapy trial for T-cell receptor therapy at the
NIH clinical Center. However, due to staffing cuts at NIH, her treatment development time
expanded from four to eight weeks. In just one month, her cancer had spread throughout her
body. Natalie passed away in late 2025.
A federal worker shared with HELP Minority staff that cuts to the Clinical Center mean that a
long-term patient must drive 6 hours round trip to participate in a clinical trial because of
research funding cuts. Per the worker, “For this patient, standard therapies have not worked for
him but the research medications have allowed him to live many years outside of the 1-2 years
he was given when diagnosed. If funding is cut anymore, his protocol may be closed and he will
die from his cancer.”
This is only a partial window into the challenges at the Clinical Center. Many workers are too
terrified of retribution to speak out about what they are experiencing. However, it is clear that the
NIH has lost a vital resource for patients and providers alike. As one nurse long-time nurse
stated, “They gutted this magnificent place where we were able to provide care the way it’s
actually supposed to be provided and actually help people.”
VI. Americans pay, by far, the highest prices in the world for drugs invented with help of
NIH scientists
Trump has said that “Americans should pay no more than the lowest price offered anywhere in
the world” for prescription drugs and that his administration is doing everything in their power to
lower prices for patients.58 And yet, under Trump, NIH has not used its power to make existing
treatments affordable for everyone who needs them.
NIH is the largest public funder of biomedical research in the world. With an annual budget of
approximately $48 billion, NIH supports more than 300,000 researchers at over 2,500
universities and research institutions across the country (“extramural research”).59 NIH-funded
research has led to life-saving treatments for cancer, HIV/AIDS, heart disease, diabetes, and
countless other conditions, and has contributed to virtually every FDA-approved drug over the
past decade.
One subset of NIH-funded medicines are drugs invented with the help of NIH scientists through
“intramural research.” NIH scientists sometimes invent the medicine itself, or a key technology
57 https://www.cbsnews.com/news/nih-hospital-patient-numbers-drop-trump/
58 TRANSCRIPT: President Trump Announces Deals to Lower Some Prescription Drug Prices, 11.06.25. Senate Democrats (2025).
https://www.democrats.senate.gov/newsroom/trump-transcripts/transcript-president-trump-announces-deals-to-lower-some-prescription-
drug-prices-110625
59 https://www.nih.gov/about-nih/organization/budget
13

government included in some contracts a “most favored nation” obligation that required
pharmaceutical companies to charge the U.S. government the lowest price among G7 countries
like Canada, the U.K., France and Japan for initial vaccine doses.62 The Trump administration
has continued the Biden policy of introducing “access plans” for intramural research, but failed
to require a clear “reasonable pricing” clause for all NIH research that would ensure Americans
pay no more than people in other countries.
VII. Conclusion
The Trump administration is failing American patients. It is destroying medical research through
cuts to research grants, terminations of clinical trials, and the chaos it has created. Patients have
been ripped from clinical trials, including transplants and cancer treatments, with nowhere else to
turn. At the same time, despite its exaggerated claims, the Trump administration is also failing to
make prescription drugs affordable. Families will continue to face the realities of treatments that
remain out of reach. This cannot be allowed to continue. Congress, the scientific community,
and the American people must stand up and fight back.
62 https://www.sanders.senate.gov/wp-content/uploads/Public-Medicines-Report-6.9.23.pdf
15
APPENDIX:
Banned Words List
address diversity deia diversity recruit
adolescent different ages, races, diversity supplement
ethnicities, and medical embraces diversity
adult of color
conditions engage diverse
advancing diversity
disadvantaged background engagement diverse
advancement diversity
disadvantaged minorit engaging diverse
african american
disadvantaged minority enhance divers
african american ethnic disinform enhance diversity
african american hispanic diverse enhancing divers
african american inclusiv diverse applicant enhancing diversity
african american minorit diverse audience environmental justice
diverse background equit
african american population
diverse candidate equit ethnic
african american women
diverse chemist equit gender
african women
diverse cohort equit lived experience
apartheid
diverse collaborator equit minorit
asian american diverse communities equitable
asian population diverse cultur equitably
assigned birth diverse faculty equity
assigned female birth diverse graduate equity, diversity, and
diverse group inclusion
assigned male birth
diverse inclusive ethnic
biracial
diverse individual ethnic disparity
birthing people
diverse investigator ethnic diversity
black american
diverse leader ethnic equit
black men
diverse learner ethnic equity
black populations diverse people ethnic inclusiv
black women diverse postdoc ethnic justice
broadening diversity diverse researcher ethnic latinx
diverse respondent ethnic minorit
campus diversity
diverse scholar ethnic minority
changing climate
diverse scientist ethnic origin
china
diverse student ethnic population
cisgender
diverse talented ethnic racial
climate change
diverse team ethnically
climate crisis
diverse trainee ethnically diverse
commitment diversity
diverse undergraduate ethno-racism
committed diversity
diverse workforce ethnography
COVID
diversify workforce expand diversity
criminal justice
diversity expanding diversity
critical race theory
diversity and inclusion faculty diversity
cultural
diversity efforts from all backgrounds
cultural background
diversity equity and gender
cultural diversity
inclusion gender affirm
culturally appropriate interv
diversity inclusion gender difference
dei
diversity program gender disparity
dei equit
A-1
Source: NIH Staff
gender dysphoria latina program diversity
gender equit latine promote diversity
gender expression latino promoting diversity
gender fluid latino men puberty blocker
gender identity latino minorit puerto rican
gender minor latino population queer
gender minorit latinx race and ethnic
gender nonbinary latinx underrep racial
gender racial leadership diversity racial and ethnic minorities
gender sex lesbian gay bisexual racial and gender diversity
gender underrepresented transgender queer racial and/or ethnic disparities
global warming lgb racial discrimination
hbcu lgbt racial dispar
health disparit lgbtq racial divers
health disparities research lived experience racial diversity
health equit men who have sex with men racial equit
health equity minorit racial minority
health inequit minorit inclusiv racial segregation
health inequities minorit racial racial underrep
hisp african american minorit underrep racial/ethnic minorities
hispanic minorities racially diverse
hispanic american minority racially/ethnically diverse
hispanic serving minority applicants racism
hispanic underserved minority children racist
historically black minority communities recruitment plan
hurricane minority groups reduce health disparities
improve diversity minority populations refusal vaccin
inclusion diversity minority student residential segregation
inclusion diversity equity minority underrepresented scientists diversity
inclusiv misinform sex assigned
inclusive multi-ethnic sex gender
inclusive training environment native americans sexual gender
increase diversity natural disasters sexual gender minorit
increased diversity need diversity sexual minorit
increasing diversity nonbinary sgm
increasingly diverse oppression social justice
inequit pacific islanders south africa
inequitable distribution pedp south african
inequities people of color stem diversity
inequity postdoctoral diversity structural racism
justice pregnant individual support diversity
koreans pregnant individuals supporting diversity
lack diversity pregnant people systemic racism
lactating individual pregnant person train diverse
lat african american pregnant persons training diverse
priority population
A-2
Source: NIH Staff
transfeminine
transgender
transmasculine
transphob
under-represented
underr african american
underr ethnic minority
underrep
underrepresented
underrepresented minorit
underrepresented minority
underrepresented population
underrepresented student
underrepresented students
underserved
underserved people of color
underserved population
urm
vaccine acceptance
vaccine hesitan
values diversity
workforce diversity
Image A1: Image of NIH Document Indicating Need for Enhanced Review
A-3
Source: NIH Staff