SOURCE FILE: statnews_com_2025_04_18_nih_halts_grants_to_universities_with_frozen_fun.html
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-26 via curl
DATE: 2025-04-18T21:24:55+00:00

NIH halts new grant awards to universities with frozen funds
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	















	
	







		
				
		
		


















		
		  								
				
					
			







Skip to Main Content


				
					
						
					
									
				
				



	STAT PlusIn the Lab

	
	
		NIH said to have halted awarding of new grants to top universities

Internal email instructs agency staff not to communicate with institutions about the decision

Manage alerts for this article

Low Memorial Library at Columbia University, one of the schools that is not to be awarded any new NIH grants, according to an agency email.Adobe

					
								
									
								
					
						By Anil Oza and Megan Molteni

Anil Oza is a general assignment reporter at STAT focused on the NIH and health equity. You can reach him on Signal at aniloza.16.

Megan covers the intersection of science and society. How is biomedical research funded? Who benefits? And how do new technologies reflect and shape our values? You can reach Megan on Signal at mmolteni.13.

Embattled universities whose funding from the National Institutes of Health has been frozen may face further financial strain as the agency holds off awarding new grants to at least half a dozen of them, according to an email obtained by STAT.

The decision could mark the next stage of the Trump administration’s attempts to apply pressure to a suite of elite colleges and universities by withholding research dollars. The email also instructs NIH staff to not communicate with the universities about whether or why funds are frozen.

Some grants that had previously been awarded to these universities had already been paused. But the new email suggests the NIH will hold off on awarding new grants as well.

Already have an account? Log in

This article is exclusive to STAT+ subscribers

Unlock this article — plus in-depth analysis, newsletters, premium events, and news alerts.

Already have an account? Log in

for 3 months, then $399/year

To read the rest of this story subscribe to STAT+.

General Assignment Reporter

Anil Oza is a general assignment reporter at STAT focused on the NIH and health equity. You can reach him on Signal at aniloza.16.

Megan covers the intersection of science and society. How is biomedical research funded? Who benefits? And how do new technologies reflect and shape our values? You can reach Megan on Signal at mmolteni.13.

Understand how science, health policy, and medicine shape the world every day

Your data will be processed in accordance with our Privacy Policy and Terms of Service. You may opt out of receiving STAT communications at any time.

Senate finance committee backs Chris Klomp, advancing him to full Senate vote

Exclusive
							
			
				
					Exclusive
					September 23, 2026				
				
										
						STAT Plus: Nominee to lead FDA aims to speed up medical research, combat China’s rise

Biotech
							
			
				
					Biotech
					September 23, 2026				
				
										
						STAT Plus: FDA advisory panel endorses Grail blood test for cancer, saying benefits outweigh risks

Business
							
			
				
					Business
					September 18, 2026				
				
										
						STAT Plus: Trump touts pharma deals to offer cheaper drugs to state Medicaid programs

Health
							
			
				
					Health
					September 17, 2026				
				
										
						Kennedy moves to revive preventive services panel with new members, after months of vacancies