
 White House cashless bail rebuke cites New York cases, but state says it has not eliminated cash bail - CBS New York 
 Latest
 U.S.
 Iran War
 Hurricane Isaias
 World
 Politics
 Entertainment
 HealthWatch
 MoneyWatch
 Crime
 Space
 Sports
 Brand Studio
 The Free Press
 Local News
 Atlanta
 Baltimore
 Bay Area
 Boston
 Chicago
 Colorado
 Detroit
 Los Angeles
 Miami
 Minnesota
 New York
 Philadelphia
 Pittsburgh
 Sacramento
 Texas
 Live
 CBS News 24/7
 Baltimore
 Bay Area
 Boston
 Chicago
 Colorado
 Detroit
 Los Angeles
 Miami
 Minnesota
 New York
 Philadelphia
 Pittsburgh
 Sacramento
 Texas
 48 Hours
 60 Minutes
 Shows
 48 Hours
 60 Minutes
 CBS Evening News
 CBS Mornings
 CBS Morning News
 CBS Reports
 CBS Saturday Morning
 The Daily Report
 The Dish
 Face the Nation
 Sunday Morning
 The Takeout
 Things That Matter
 The Uplift
 CBS News Investigates
 CBS News Confirmed
 Podcasts
 Newsletters
 Download Our App
 CBS News Team
 Executive Team
 Brand Studio
 Paramount+
 Join Our Talent Community
 RSS Feeds
 New York
 |
 News
 Weather
 Voters Decide
 Sports
 Video
 New York Shows
 Your Home Team
 All News
 NY News
 Bronx News
 Brooklyn News
 Harlem News
 Long Island News
 Northern Suburbs
 Queens News
 NJ News
 CT News
 Investigations
 Politics
 Education
 Transportation
 Crime
 Housing
 Arts & Entertainment
 Climate & Environment
 Health & Wellness
 Aging & Caregiving
 First Alert Weather
 Radars & Maps
 CBS2 Weather Map
 CBS2 Weather Watchers
 First Alert Weather 101
 Share Photos & Videos
 All Sports
 Giants
 Yankees
 Knicks
 Rangers
 Islanders
 Jets
 Mets
 Nets
 Devils
 CBS Sports HQ
 Odds
 Latest News
 CBS New York Investigates
 Book Club with Mary Calvi
 Class Act with Chris Wragge
 #BetterTogether
 Breaking The Stigma
 Furry Friend Finder
 Sandy
 The 5:33 | Legacy of the LIRR Massacre
 On The Dot with David Schechter: Wildfires & Climate Change
 Climate Change: Protecting our Planet
 Station Info
 WCBS-TV
 WLNY-TV
 Contact Us
 Advertise
 Contests & Promotions
 Galleries
 Links & Numbers
 Download Our App
 Memorials
 Watch CBS News
 Local News
 White House cashless bail rebuke cites New York cases, but state says it has not eliminated cash bail
 By
 Marcia Kramer, 
 Marcia Kramer
 Marcia Kramer
 Marcia Kramer joined CBS News New York in 1990 as an investigative and political reporter. Prior to CBS2, she was the City Hall bureau chief at the New York Daily News.
 Read Full Bio
 Marcia Kramer, 
 Jennifer Bisram
 Jennifer Bisram
 Jennifer Bisram is an award-winning reporter and anchor who joined CBS News New York in 2022. She covers aging and caregiving, as well as crime and community stories.
 Read Full Bio
 Jennifer Bisram
 Updated on: August 26, 2025 / 1:26 PM EDT
 / CBS New York
 Add CBS News on Google
 As President Trump takes aim at cashless bail in a federal crackdown on crime, he signed an executive order Monday threatening to withhold funding from Washington, D.C. and other cities that refuse to end the practice. 
Mr. Trump signed the order as the White House labeled cashless bail "a government-backed crime spree" and used some New York City cases as examples.
One case involved a man released without bail in 2022 after he allegedly smeared feces on a woman waiting for a subway train. Another involved two men released without bail in 2023 after they were accused of beating up an NYPD officer.
Meanwhile, U.S. Attorney General Pam Bondi met with Police Commissioner Jessica Tisch on Monday afternoon and sources told CBS News New York that they spoke about the possibility of the president sending National Guard troops to the city. 
Tisch told Bondi that the city's crime rates are at a record low and there is no need for the National Guard, the sources said. 
Watch: President Trump takes aim at states with cashless bail with executive order
NYPD could lose $200 million under Trump's cashless bail order
Mr. Trump's executive order directs Bondi to identify jurisdictions with cashless bail policies and revoke federal grants from those that do not comply.
The president made it abundantly clear he wants to expand the program beyond Washington, D.C. and that New York could be next.
That could become a $200 million headache for the city if the administration decides to revoke federal grants to the NYPD. It amounts to about 3% of the city's $6.1 billion police budget, but goes toward critical antiterrorism programs.
Mayor Eric Adams, who is in an uphill battle for reelection this year, said the department would still be OK.
"We're going to always do our job. We're asking our other criminal justice partners to do theirs," Adams said.
The New York Civil Liberties Union issued the statement, "Today's [executive order] is also about reckless domination, with its threats to withhold federal funds, and coming amid Trump's baseless threats to deploy federal troops to city streets."
A spokesperson for Gov. Kathy Hochul's office insisted rearrests of people on pretrial release are down from 24% in 2020 to 17% in 2024. 
New York's cashless bail law
New York's cashless bail law eliminated cash bail for misdemeanors and nonviolent felonies in 2019, but public outcry forced Hochul to push through several reforms.
"[Mr. Trump] has no concept of how our laws work here. We have made some substantial changes to the bail laws. Not once, but two consecutive sessions. Those changes are working and the data is bearing that out," Hochul said at an unrelated event Tuesday morning.
The original bill was signed by Hochul's predecessor, Andrew Cuomo, a current independent candidate for mayor of New York City.
Upstate Congresswoman Elise Stefanik, who is eyeing a run for governor in 2026, said she will write new legislation to outlaw cashless bail.
"Kathy Hochul has prioritized violent criminals over law-abiding New Yorkers. Enough is enough," she said.
City Councilwoman Tiffany Caban is a former public defender.
"We know that the research shows that instituting cashless bail in different jurisdictions does not increase crime," Caban said. "We know that people overwhelmingly come back to court, and it breaks down that those [are] two systems of justice, one for the wealthy, one for the less wealthy or poor."
Cashless bail in the NYC mayor's race
Several candidates in the New York City mayor's race looked to hold Cuomo responsible for easing the state's bail provisions. 
"Cashless bail created by Andrew Cuomo in 2019 as governor," Republican nominee Curtis Sliwa said. 
"Always made it clear that a revolving door system of dealing with violent offenders must be addressed. I think the former governor made a terrible mistake with how they did bail reform," Adams said. 
Cuomo spokesperson Rich Azzopardi said in response to Adams and Sliwa, "One was criminally indicted for corruption and the other was caught red handed faking crimes for cheap publicity for his fake vigilante group. Neither is the law and order candidate."
Zohran Mamdani was elected to the state assembly after Cuomo signed the bill, but the Democratic nominee said he would fight the president's executive order. 
"We have seen that the best way to fight Donald Trump is to do exactly that. It's to fight him. It's not to cower, it's not to collaborate, it's not to call him," Mamdani said.
Cashless bail is affecting other decisions in the mayor's race, like who can best work with Mr. Trump and who can best stand up to him on issues that impact the city.
 More from CBS News
 NYC Mayor Mamdani marks 3 years since Oct. 7 attacks by calling out "ongoing genocide"
 Hochul leads Blakeman by 11 points in N.Y. gov race, new poll says
 Suspect who allegedly pushed woman, infant from Bronx balcony arrested
 Rhetoric in N.Y. governor's race heats up with Election Day 4 weeks away
 In:
 Andrew Cuomo
 Bail Reform
 NYPD
 Donald Trump
 Curtis Sliwa
 Eric Adams
 Kathy Hochul
 New York City
 Zohran Mamdani
 © 2025 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
 Featured Local Savings
 New York Gov. Hochul speaks about state's cashless bail laws
 02:07
 New York Gov. Hochul speaks about state's cashless bail laws
 (02:07)
 NYC Mayor Mamdani marks 3 years since Oct. 7 attacks by calling out "ongoing genocide"
 Hochul leads Blakeman by 11 points in N.Y. gov race, new poll says
 Suspect who allegedly pushed woman, infant from Bronx balcony arrested
 Rhetoric in N.Y. governor's race heats up with Election Day 4 weeks away
 Featured
 Political News
 Iran War Latest
 NFL Scores
 College Football Rankings
 Follow Us On
 YouTube
 Facebook
 Instagram
 TikTok
 X
 CBS News New York
 Meet the Team
 WLNY-TV 55
 Program Guide
 Contests & Promotions
 Advertise With Us
 Terms & Conditions
 Sitemap
 Regulation
 Public File for WCBS-TV
 Public File for WLNY-TV
 Public Inspection File Help
 FCC Applications
 WCBS-TV EEO Report
 WLNY-TV EEO Report
 Privacy
 Privacy Policy
 California Notice
 Your Privacy Choices
 Terms of Use
 Minors' Privacy Policy
 Company
 About Paramount
 Advertise With Paramount
 Join Our Talent Community
 Help
 Feedback
 Contact the Ombudsman
 ©2026 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved.
 View CBS News In
 CBS News App
 Open
 Chrome
 Safari
 Continue
