 Joint Blakeman-Lawler appearance offers look at what might have been - City & State New York Continue to the site Skip to Content Opinion Opinion: Israel is not Netanyahu, and the Oct. 7 attacks cannot be erased 2026 Gubernatorial Joint Blakeman-Lawler appearance offers look at what might have been Tech Leading AI companies fail to impress at City Council AI hearing 2026 Gubernatorial Hochul gets a vitamin AOC shot Interviews & Profiles How Hudson Valley politics has changed over the past 20 years 2026 Midterms Mike Lawler might be the only Republican who could win NY-17. Can he do it again? Opinion Opinion: Israel is not Netanyahu, and the Oct. 7 attacks cannot be erased 2026 Gubernatorial Joint Blakeman-Lawler appearance offers look at what might have been Tech Leading AI companies fail to impress at City Council AI hearing 2026 Gubernatorial Hochul gets a vitamin AOC shot Interviews & Profiles How Hudson Valley politics has changed over the past 20 years 2026 Midterms Mike Lawler might be the only Republican who could win NY-17. Can he do it again? Notice at Collection Your Privacy Choices Exercise Your Privacy Rights Politics Policy Personality Power Lists Opinion | Events 20th Anniversary Magazine Newsletters More Politics Policy Personality Power Lists Opinion Events 20th Anniversary Magazine Newsletters Heard Around Town Special Reports Podcasts Job Board Resource Directory Legal & Public Notices Subscription Advertise About Us Staff Merchandise Awards, Plaques & Permissions Channels Notice at Collection Your Privacy Choices Exercise Your Privacy Rights must be on same line --> Trending You CAN’T Miss “Heard Around Town” 2026 House races to watch Opinion: Israel is not Netanyahu, and the Oct. 7 attacks cannot be erased Joint Blakeman-Lawler appearance offers look at what might have been Leading AI companies fail to impress at City Council AI hearing Hochul gets a vitamin AOC shot How Hudson Valley politics has changed over the past 20 years Mike Lawler might be the only Republican who could win NY-17. Can he do it again? 2026 New York state elections Joint Blakeman-Lawler appearance offers look at what might have been One-time rivals in the Republican race for governor, the two candidates joined forces to slam Hochul and Democrats as soft on immigration enforcement. Republican gubernatorial candidate Bruce Blakeman and Rep. Mike Lawler joined forces for a press conference on Tuesday. Nila Roper / City & State New York The must-read daily newsletter for NY's political community. Get it in your inbox. email Register for Newsletter By Nila Roper | October 6, 2026 By Nila Roper October 6, 2026 2026 New York state elections Campaigns & Elections Rep. Mike Lawler recently told City & State he’s open to launching a bid for governor in a different political climate, after having positioned himself for a run last year before abandoning it to run for reelection instead. But as he appeared with Republican gubernatorial nominee and Nassau County Executive Bruce Blakeman on a windy Tuesday morning in Chappaqua, it was difficult to see a reason for Lawler to have waited. Watching the member of Congress rail against the state’s recent ban on formal cooperation between local law enforcement and federal immigration enforcement, juxtaposed with a relatively quiet Blakeman, offered a window into what might have been this gubernatorial election. Seeing Lawler and Blakeman appear as a united front, the former backing the latter in his race for governor, was somewhat jarring: Lawler contemplated and teased running for governor several times, at one point confidently stating he was best positioned to defeat Hochul . But he ended up choosing to run for reelection to the House, a decision pushed for by President Donald Trump and other congressional allies. (Lawler, however, says he came to this decision himself.) And after another strong contender for the GOP nomination, Rep. Elise Stefanik, unexpectedly dropped out too, Blakeman had a clear path to the Republican line. He didn’t even face a primary. But that doesn’t mean Blakeman’s run for governor has been an easy road. While Lawler, a two-term member of Congress, is in a tough fight to hold on to his House seat against Democrat Cait Conley, Blakeman has a much steeper hill to climb as he faces an incumbent Democratic governor in blue New York in a year not expected to favor Republicans. Blakeman’s campaign also seems to be in a bit of a financial tizzy – a disclosure filed on Friday by his team shows only $178,000 in the bank, and as Politico New York reported Monday, he may actually be in the red once he returns over-the-limit contributions. It’s true that Lawler has made a name for himself as an unapologetic , commanding voice in New York politics. It’s also true the event was on Lawler’s home turf; throughout his campaign, Blakeman has had to work to expand his name recognition beyond Long Island. But Lawler’s sharp tongue, impossible to overlook, makes him stand out next to the gubernatorial nominee. Tuesday’s appearance was no exception: He was literally uncensored as he condemned the ban on 287(g) agreements, calling the governor “too fucking stupid” to solve the problem of crimes committed by undocumented people. “Nobody in their right mind can stand here and look these families in the face and say that refusing to turn over murderers and rapists is good public policy,” Lawler said, referring to the families of Sheridan Gorman and Laken Riley, young women killed in Chicago and Georgia, respectively. The men charged and convicted with the respective killings are both undocumented immigrants. Despite being at the top of the ticket, Blakeman said little throughout the majority of the press conference, nor was he particularly animated. But on immigration, he agreed with Lawler, who was once seen as his potential opponent in the Republican primary. Blakeman spoke highly of his own record as county executive, referring to Nassau police’s collaboration with ICE as “the most comprehensive agreement with ICE in America” prior to the ban. Like Lawler, he took the opportunity to criticize the governor’s record on immigration. “Kathy Hochul talks about atrocities committed by ICE. She is a liar. There have been no atrocities committed by ICE in New York state,” he said. Later, he added, “We didn’t raid one church, we didn’t raid one school, we didn’t raid one daycare center.” At an unrelated event Tuesday, Hochul reiterated that there’s nothing stopping law enforcement from working with federal immigration officials in investigating a crime; most immigration cases are civil ones. In response to the duo’s comments on the governor, state Democratic Party spokesperson Addison Dick said in a statement, “Mike Lawler and Bruce Blakeman would rather shill for Donald Trump than keep New Yorkers safe: while Governor Hochul invested $4 billion in public safety, got 26,000 illegal guns off New York streets, and brought crime to record lows, Mike Lawler was voting to defund police and Bruce Blakeman was defending ICE killing American citizens.” Share This: NEXT STORY: ‘Our enemy of our enemy is still our enemy’: Seneca Nation members protest tribal president’s Blakeman fundraiser Campaigns & Elections Winners & Losers: Primary Edition City & Style Why Mamdani won’t take off that damn suit Campaigns & Elections The 26 new rules for elections in ’26 News & Politics The rise of Tammamdani Hall Transportation Dozens of city officials are driven around by chauffeurs. Are they living in a bubble? Daily Newsletter Sign up for NY’s must-read free daily political newsletter. Campaigns & Elections Winners & Losers: Primary Edition City & Style Why Mamdani won’t take off that damn suit Campaigns & Elections The 26 new rules for elections in ’26 News & Politics The rise of Tammamdani Hall Transportation Dozens of city officials are driven around by chauffeurs. Are they living in a bubble? Daily Newsletter Sign up for NY’s must-read free daily political newsletter. City & State Links News & Politics Albany Agenda Campaign Confidential New York City New York State Campaigns & Elections Heard Around Town News & Politics Ask the Experts Announcements Policy Budget Criminal Justice Education Energy & Environment Ethics Gambling Healthcare Housing Immigration Infrastructure Labor Policy Publisher's Section Small Business Technology Transportation Personality Interviews & Profiles Personality Winners & Losers Power List Opinion Commentary Editor's Note Opinion Pitching Op-Eds \ NYN Media Nonprofits List Nominations First Read Sign up Magazine Subscribe Issues Media Podcasts Videos Resource Directory Events Jobs Products Why Post with Us About NY Nonprofit Jobs About Staff Contact Privacy Policy Terms of Use Merchandise Awards, Plaques & Permissions Follow Us © 2026 by Government Media Executive Group LLC. All rights reserved. Back to top Almost There! Help us tailor content specifically for you: Full Name * newsletter-survey#validateInput" aria-describedby="full-name-error" required> I Work For... * newsletter-survey#validateSelect newsletter-survey#validateSelect" required> — select — State/Local Government Federal Government Government Contractor Education Private Sector Lobbying Advocacy Media Retired Agency/Department * newsletter-survey#validateSelect newsletter-survey#validateSelect"> — select — Department of the Air Force Department of the Army Department of the Navy Joint Chiefs of Staff National Intelligence Agency Office of the Secretary of Defense Other Defense Agency Agency/Department * newsletter-survey#validateSelect newsletter-survey#validateSelect"> — select — Air Force Army Coast Guard Navy Marines Agency/Department * newsletter-survey#validateSelect newsletter-survey#validateSelect"> — select — Department of Agriculture Department of Commerce Department of Education Department of Energy Department of HHS Department of Homeland Security Department of HUD Department of Interior Department of Justice Department of Labor Department of State Department of Transportation Department of Treasury Department of Veterans Affairs EPA Executive Office of the President/Vice President Federal Bureau of Investigation Federal Communications Commission Federal Trade Commission GSA Judiciary Branch Legislative Branch NASA National Institute of Health OMB OPM SSA USPS Other Agency Agency/Department * newsletter-survey#validateSelect newsletter-survey#validateSelect"> — select — Government Association County Municipal Special District State Other Agency/Department * newsletter-survey#validateSelect newsletter-survey#validateSelect"> — select — Higher Education K-12 Education Other Organization Function * newsletter-survey#validateSelect newsletter-survey#validateSelect"> — select — Elected Official/Legislative/Executive Office Environment/Energy Finance/Budget Health & Human Services Public Safety/Emergency Services/Law Enforcement Technology Transportation/Utilities/Infrastructure Other Please Provide Your Org.'s Name * newsletter-survey#validateInput"> Industry * newsletter-survey#validateSelect newsletter-survey#validateSelect"> — select — Education & Academia Energy & Environment Financial Services Government Health Care Labor Law Media PR & Consulting Real Estate Technology Job Title * newsletter-survey#validateInput"> Job Function * newsletter-survey#validateSelect newsletter-survey#validateSelect"> — select — Agency Leadership Business & Operations Communications & Marketing Financial/Contract Management Human Resource Management Technology Management Country * newsletter-survey#validateSelect newsletter-survey#validateSelect" required> United States EEA (European Economic Area) Canada Other Country Name * newsletter-survey#validateInput" data-newsletter-survey-target="countryOther"> Postal code * newsletter-survey#validatePostalCode" required> Phone Number newsletter-survey#validatePhoneNumber"> Yes, I want to receive occasional updates from partners I agree to the use of my personal data by Government Executive Media Group and its partners to serve me targeted ads. Learn more . Thank you! Thank you for subscribing! Please check out our other newsletter offerings on our Newsletter page. Close × Stay up to date on NY politics with news and analysis delivered to your inbox every morning and evening. Sign up for First Read below My email is ... I work for ... --select-- State/Local Government Federal Government Government Contractor Education Private Sector Lobbying Advocacy Media Retired Also get our Events Newsletters, and stay up to date on all our in-person and virtual offerings. Sign up Privacy Policy Almost There! Help us tailor content specifically for you: Full Name Agency/Department --select-- Department of the Air Force Department of the Army Department of the Navy Joint Chiefs of Staff National Intelligence Agency Office of the Secretary of Defense Other Defense Agency Air Force Army Coast Guard Navy Marines Department of Agriculture Department of Commerce Department of Education Department of Energy Department of HHS Department of Homeland Security Department of HUD Department of Interior Department of Justice Department of Labor Department of State Department of Transportation Department of Treasury Department of Veterans Affairs EPA Executive Office of the President/Vice President Federal Bureau of Investigation Federal Communications Commission Federal Trade Commission GSA Judiciary Branch Legislative Branch NASA National Institute of Health OMB OPM SSA USPS Other Agency Government Association County Municipal Special District State Organization Function --select-- Elected Official/Legislative/Executive Office Environment/Energy Finance/Budget Health & Human Services Public Safety/Emergency Services/Law Enforcement Technology Transportation/Utilities/Infrastructure Other Organization Name Job Function --select-- Agency Leadership Business & Operations Communications & Marketing Financial/Contract Management Human Resource Management Technology Management Phone number Zip code Country United States EEA (European Economic Area) Canada Other Country Name Yes, City & State NY can email me on behalf of carefully selected companies and organizations companies and organizations. I agree to the use of my personal data by Government Executive Media Group and its partners to serve me targeted ads. Learn more . Submit More from CSNY Privacy Policy 