Trump Rallies For Blakeman, Celebrates Law Enforcement During LI Visit: 'Golden Age Of America Is Upon Us' | Long Island, NY Patch
Skip to main content
​
​
Long Island, NYSubscribe
News FeedEventsLocal BusinessesAdvertise​
​
Post
Advertise
Nearby
Local News
Events
Local Businesses
Classifieds
See all communities
Advertise
Promote on Patch
Nearby Communities
Sachem, NY
Islip, NY
Hauppauge, NY
Sayville-Bayport, NY
East Islip, NY
Brentwood-Central Islip, NY
Smithtown, NY
Bay Shore, NY
Patchogue, NY
Medford, NY
State Edition
New York
National Edition
Top National News
See All Communities
Thank you to our Local Business Sponsor:
Ace Canvas & Tent Corp.
Politics & Government
Trump Rallies For Blakeman, Celebrates Law Enforcement During LI Visit: 'Golden Age Of America Is Upon Us'
The president cited newly released FBI data while praising Nassau County and campaigning for Bruce Blakeman for governor.
Kepherd Daniel, Patch Staff
Posted Fri, Aug 14, 2026 at 6:36 pm ET|Updated Fri, Aug 14, 2026 at 11:54 pm ET
President Donald Trump speaks at the David Mack Center for Training and Intelligence, Friday, Aug. 14, 2026, in Garden City, N.Y. (AP Photo/Julia Demaree Nikhinson)
 NASSAU COUNTY, NY — President Donald Trump visited the David S. Mack Center for Training and Intelligence in Garden City on Friday, where he strongly campaigned for gubernatorial candidate and Nassau County Executive Bruce Blakeman and touted Nassau County’s crime record as evidence that the Republican county executive should be New York’s next governor. 
VIDEO BELOW:
 Trump’s appearance at Nassau County’s police training facilities began as a celebration of law enforcement and the administration’s newly released crime figures, but quickly developed into a rally for Blakeman and other New York Republicans. 
Find out what's happening in Long Islandfor free with the latest updates from Patch.
Subscribe
By subscribing, you agree to Patch's Privacy Policy and Terms of Use.
 Trump said a newly released FBI Uniform Crime Report showed the United States had experienced the single largest reduction in violent crime in American history in 2025. 
 He said the country recorded more than 3,100 fewer murders than before he took office and claimed there were also 10,000 fewer rapes and roughly 1 million fewer assaults, robberies, burglaries and thefts. 
Find out what's happening in Long Islandfor free with the latest updates from Patch.
Subscribe
By subscribing, you agree to Patch's Privacy Policy and Terms of Use.
 Trump said preliminary 2026 data showed robberies had fallen another 20 percent and murders another 23 percent. 
 “According to the latest data, crime has continued to plummet under our leadership in 2026, with robberies down another 20 percent and murders down another 23 percent,” Trump said. “Together, we’re showing what is possible when you finally have a president in the White House who supports our police, who lets you do your job and who always backs the blue.” 
 FBI Director Kash Patel, who grew up in Nassau County, previewed those figures shortly before Trump took the stage. Patel credited Trump with backing and funding police and said the administration was seeing historic results, including declines in homicide and drug overdose deaths and the apprehension of violent fugitives around the world. 
 “President Trump, thank you for backing law enforcement. Thank you for funding law enforcement. Thank you for loving law enforcement,” Patel said. 
 Trump repeatedly praised Nassau police, called Blakeman a political “winner” and cited Nassau County’s ranking as the safest county in the country. 
 “Nassau County has been rated the number one safest county in the United States of America,” Trump said. “That’s not bad.” 
Nassau County Executive Bruce Blakeman speaks at the David S. Mack Center for Training and Intelligence in Garden City on Friday ahead of President Donald Trump’s remarks. (Kepherd Daniel/Patch) Blakeman, who spoke before Trump, said Nassau has what he called the most comprehensive agreement with U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement in the country and said the partnership resulted in the removal of 2,000 migrants with criminal records in one year. 
 “In one year, we removed 2,000 illegal migrants with criminal records ranging from attempted murder, rape, murder, drug dealing,” Blakeman said. 
 Blakeman said the county accomplished those removals without conducting immigration raids at churches, daycare centers, schools or hospitals because local officials were working directly with federal law enforcement. 
 “We were able to do it in an orderly way, but they say that we’re cruel,” Blakeman said. 
 Trump credited Blakeman’s cooperation with federal authorities with helping Nassau maintain its public-safety record. 
 “I want to thank Bruce Blakeman for working closely with federal law enforcement to remove more than 2,000 migrant criminals from Nassau County,” Trump said. “He removed 2,000 absolute total criminals. That’s why your records are so good. That’s why you’re number one in the whole country.” 
 The president’s endorsement of Blakeman was part of a broader attack on Gov. Kathy Hochul and New York Democrats. 
 “Nowhere is the communist attack on American society more clear than here in New York State,” Trump said. 
 Trump argued that cashless bail allows repeat offenders back onto the streets and portrayed sanctuary policies as shielding dangerous criminals. 
 “I love this place, but it gets harder to love. It really does,” Trump said of New York. “But if you think, it really started with the no-cash bail.” 
 Trump accused the Biden administration of allowing violent criminals into the country through an “open border,” said sanctuary jurisdictions were one of the biggest obstacles facing federal law enforcement and claimed his administration had arrested 1.2 million criminals nationwide while increasing federal criminal prosecutions by more than 50 percent. 
 “The biggest problem we have, the biggest impediment we have, are sanctuary cities, where they protect criminals,” Trump said. 
Law enforcement officers and attendees gather beneath a “Making America Safe Again” sign during President Donald Trump’s visit to the David S. Mack Center for Training and Intelligence in Garden City on Friday. (Kepherd Daniel/Patch) Blakeman made a similar argument before Trump arrived onstage, saying fentanyl and opioid deaths in Nassau had fallen since the border was secured. 
 “Our opioid deaths, our fentanyl deaths, have gone way down. Overdoses are way down,” Blakeman said. “What does that mean? What it means is that we don’t have to read about in a newspaper another family that’s lost a child to fentanyl. That’s what it means.” 
 Several other Long Island Republicans spoke before Trump. 
 Former Rep. Anthony D’Esposito, drawing on his own law-enforcement background, said government’s first responsibility is to keep people safe and argued that financial fraud is intertwined with organized crime, narcotics trafficking and human trafficking. 
 “Crime and fraud are a tax that you never voted for, and criminals thrive when they believe nobody is coming,” D’Esposito said. “Under President Donald J. Trump, somebody is coming. The investigators are coming. The federal agents are coming. The prosecutors are coming. And handcuffs and prison cells are also coming.” 
 Town of Hempstead Receiver of Taxes Jeanine Driscoll highlighted Trump’s “no tax on tips” and “no tax on overtime” policies as particularly a plus for working Long Islanders and police officers who depend on extra shifts. 
 “A young police officer working overtime just to make ends meet — this really makes an impact on their lives,” Driscoll said. “We keep every single cent they earn in their hands, and they deserve it.” 
Town of Hempstead Receiver of Taxes Jeanine Driscoll speaks at the David S. Mack Center for Training and Intelligence in Garden City on Friday ahead of President Donald Trump’s remarks. (Kepherd Daniel/Patch) Former state Assemblyman Mike LiPetri, the Republican candidate challenging Rep. Tom Suozzi, used his remarks to attack Suozzi’s record and portray the congressional contest as another front in the fight over policing, immigration and the Republican agenda. 
 “It’s about standing up for law enforcement and advocating for our victims and our veterans, not our criminals and illegal aliens,” LiPetri said. “It’s very simple. You break the law, we hold you accountable. You jeopardize the safety of our citizens, you will be held accountable.” 
 Long Island Republicans later joined Trump onstage, including Driscoll, LiPetri, Reps. Nick LaLota, Nicole Malliotakis, Andrew Garbarino and congressional candidates Anthony Constantino and Kailee Buller. 
 Garbarino used his turn at the microphone to highlight the state and local tax deduction, a major issue for Long Island homeowners. 
 “One thing we didn’t mention today, but we have to: this would not have happened without the president,” Garbarino said. “Let’s thank him for getting our SALT deduction back.” 
 Trump also used the Long Island appearance to discuss the ongoing conflict with Iran, saying that the conflict could mean Americans pay more for gasoline, but said preventing Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon justified the cost. 
 “So for you to pay a tiny little bit more for your gasoline, just remember you’re doing it so that a very evil country cannot have a nuclear weapon,” Trump said. “Remember that when you have to pay a little bit more. You’re at $4. It’s okay. I’ll never apologize. I did the right thing.” 
 Trump finished by declaring that the “golden age of America is upon us” and reprising his campaign promises to make the country powerful, wealthy, healthy, strong, proud and safe. 
 “Together with your help and patriots all across this magnificent land, we will make America powerful again,” Trump said. “We will make America wealthy again. We will make America healthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America proud again. We will make America safe again. And above all, we will make America great again.”
Get more local news delivered straight to your inbox. Sign up for free Patch newsletters and alerts.
Related:Patch Exclusives
Share
Join the conversation 
More from Long Island
Neighbor News|18h
LI 1-Year-Old Leads 'Baby Of The Year' Group As Voting Deadline Nears
Politics & Government|18h
Lavine Expresses Outrage over Mamdani Oct. 7 Remark
Politics & Government|1d
Lavine Appointed to Assembly Panel Reviewing Sexual Assault Laws after Cornell Allegations
Featured Events
Oct 11, 2026 Vet Fest
Oct 13, 2026 Taco Bell Grand Opening in Bohemia, NY
Promote your event
Featured Businesses
 Ace Canvas & Tent Corp.
 718 Solar LI
 Full Circle Habitats
Get my business found
Featured Classifieds
Promote your classified
Latest News Nearby
Long Island, NY NewsLI 1-Year-Old Leads 'Baby Of The Year' Group As Voting Deadline Nears
Oyster Bay, NY News'Our Family Is Not Complete:' Oyster Bay Family Desperate For Missing Puppy's Return
Huntington, NY NewsLI Girl, 8, Who Lost Leg To Cancer Now Fighting Disease For Third Time
Riverhead, NY NewsEx-DSS Examiner Accused Of Stealing More Than $78K In SNAP Benefits From Needy Families: DA
Bay Shore, NY NewsLong Island Hospital Performs Region's First Robotic Double-Valve Repair
Best of Long Island
Long Island | Business5 Salivating Farm-To-Table Restaurants On Long Island
Long Island | Business5 Must-Visit Places To Get Mouth-Watering Cider Donuts On Long Island
Find out what’s happening in your
community on the Patch app
Corporate Info
About Patch
Careers
Partnerships
Advertise on Patch
Support
FAQs
Contact Patch
Community Guidelines
Posting Instructions
Terms of UsePrivacy Policy
© 2026 Patch Media. All Rights Reserved.
