
WJTN News Headlines for Wed., Oct. 7, 2026
 Our Stations 
 WWSE (93.3)
 WQFX (103.1)
 WJTN (1240 & 101.3)
 WKSN (1340)
 WHUG (101.9)
 WKZA (106.9)
 Keyword
 Go
 Home
 On Air
 Digital Listening Options 
 WICU - 92.7 FM 
 WWSE - 93.3 FM 
 WREO - 97.1 FM 
 WYBL - 98.3 FM 
 WHUG - 101.9 FM 
 WZOO - 102.5 FM 
 WQFX - 103.1 FM 
 WNAE - 104.3 FM 
 WKZA - 106.9 FM 
 WFXJ - 107.5 FM 
 WFUN - 970 AM 
 WJTN - 1240 AM / 101.3 FM 
 WKSN - 1340 AM 
 News Weather Sports
 Local News & Weather 
 Closings 
 National News 
 Sports News & Schedule 
 World News 
 Business News 
 Political News 
 Entertainment News 
 Health News 
 Contests & Events
 Burger King Giveaway 
 Community Events & Announcements 
 B-Dub’s Boarding Pass: Las Vegas 
 Listener Newsletter Subscription 
 Advertisers
 Glenora Deals
 Podcasts
 Community Spotlight 
 Community Matters 
 Hospice 
 The Small Town Social Workers Podcast 
 The Anew Center Podcast 
 Chautauqua County Humane Society 
 Local Sports Coverage 
 Local News & Information 
 WJTN 100th Anniversary 
 High School Bowl 
 The Times of Your LIfe 
 Our American Stories 
 The John Tesh Podcast 
 Information for Your Health 
 Paranormal Podcast Network 
 America in the Morning Podcast 
 On with Mario Daily Podcast 
 On Air with Ryan Seacrest 
 Loudwire Nights Podcast 
 The Outlaw Dave Podcast 
 LA Lloyd Rock 30 Podcast 
 The TJ Show Podcast 
 Dee Snider Podcast 
 Ashley & Brad Podcast 
 Rise Up w/John Ritter Podcast 
 ABC Start Here Weekend 
 Contact Us
 Contact Us 
 Employment 
 Read All
 WJTN News Headlines for Wed., Oct. 7, 2026 
 Category:
 Local News
 Posted Yesterday At 3:42pm 
 by 
 Terry Frank
 Barn and adjacent shop destroyed by fire in Clymer...
Flames early Tuesday morning have destroyed a barn and a shop in the town of Clymer.  However... quick work by fire crews saved the adjacent house.  Stanley Hose Company officials say they responded with Clymer firefighters to the scene about 5:15 a.m., and, found the barn and shop fully-involved on arrival.  Officials say they quickly focused their efforts on protecting the home from the intense flames.  On the Stanley Hose Facebook page... they say "thanks to the quick and coordinated work of everyone on scene, the residence was saved with only minimal damage."  Mutual aid was also called in from Ashville... Findley Lake... Panama... Corry, Pennsylvania... and county EMS.  Crews were at the scene for several hours... and no one was hurt.  Officials add that all the animals in the barn were taken out safely.  No cause has been released at this time.
Hochul announces State Disaster Emergency in response to ongoing Measles outbreak...
Governor Kathy Hochul has issued an Executive Order declaring a State Disaster Emergency in response to the growing number of measles cases across rural areas of the state... and, neighboring ones.  Hochul says the order allows the state to respond more swiftly to the outbreak... and, allows healthcare professionals to take additional steps that will help get more New Yorkers vaccinated and tested -- if needed.   As of Oct. 3... the governor's office says there have been seven confirmed cases in New York City.. and 101 in New York State outside of New York City for 108 total cases this year, amid a global and domestic increase in measles cases.  There are now three confirmed cases is here in Chautauqua County.
Blakeman, local Republicans, tout his record, and "misery" caused by Hochul and Democrats...
The Long Island Republican who is challenging Governor Kathy Hochul for New York's top elected post campaigned in Western New York Monday.  One of Nassau County Executive Bruce Blakeman's stops was in Dunkirk.  Local Republicans rallied at the Northern Chautauqua Conservation Club in support of Blakeman.  The Nassau County Executive said his campaign is not a normal one... noting that he's running in a "deep blue" state.  He says people wonder how he can win... but, he replies that Hochul's unfavorability rating" is at 57%.  
Blakeman... who has been battling for more name recognition... calls this "a battle for the heart and soul of our state."  Local Congressman Nick Langworthy was among the elected leaders on hand to support Blakeman.  Langworthy urged county residents to rally around Blakeman.  He calls the Republican "what the doctor ordered" for the state.  State Senator George Borrello, who called the upcoming election a critical moment for New York, says the "pain and misery" experienced by state residents is directly linked to Hochul and the Democrats in charge in Albany.  Borrello says Blakeman will "turn the state around" and make New York a safe and affordable place to live.  State Assembly members Andrew Molitor of Westfield... and, Canesteo's Joe Sempolinski also spoke at the rally.  Molitor says he supports Blakeman because he's tired of seeing family and friends leaving the state.
Ecklund announces unveiling of new memorial to late City Councilman, Tony Dolce...
The city of Jamestown will honor the life and legacy of the longest serving member of the city council by renaming the Greater Jamestown Riverwalk Bike Path in his memory.  Mayor Kim Ecklund has announced that a public unveiling of the new "Tony Dolce Riverwalk Bike Path" will be held next Thursday, Oct. 15 at 3:30 p.m.  Ecklund made the announcement at this week's council work session.  She says it'll be on the path just off Eighth Street.  Tony Dolce passed away unexpectedly this past July 18th in his sleep.  He was 64.  His passing followed more than three decades of dedicated service to the city as a councilman and teacher.  Ecklund added that "Tony's love of running makes the Riverwalk a particularly meaningful place to honor his memory."  
City man arrested on drugs, criminal impersonation and drug possession...
A street check by police on Jamestown's eastside has led to the arrest of a city man for drug possession and lying about his identity.  Jamestown police say a patrol in the area of Winsor Street saw 33 year-old Shawn Beardsley walking on the roadway just after 1 a.m. Wednesday.... and, conducted the street check.  Officers had prior knowledge that Beardsley was sought on an outstanding city court warrant... and, he allegedly gave police the name of a relative to avoid arrest.  They also found that he was in possesion of a quantity of cocaine.  Beardsley was taken into custody without incident on charges of second-degree criminal impersonation... seventh-degree criminal possession of a controlled substance... and, failure to use the sidewalk... in addition to the warrant.  He was held pending arraignment.
Man from Jamestown arrested again for violating order of protection...
A city man convicted for previously violating an order of protection has been arrested again on Jamestown's eastside.  City police say a patrol was conducting a street check on 53 year-old Michael Cook and another person shortly before 3 a.m. Tuesday.  Officers say they found Cook and that person behind a business, and determined that the other person had a "stay-away" order against him.  Cook was taken into custody on one count of first-degree criminal contempt... and, transported to the city jail pending arraignment.
 Read All
 Hide Comments
 Glenora Radio Network
 Home   |  EEO  |  Employment Openings  | FCC Applications |  Contact Us   |   Privacy Policy  |  Contest Rules
WJTN Public File | WKSN Public File | WWSE Public File | WHUG Public File | WQFX Public File | WKZA Public File
Need help accessing the FCC Public File due to a disability? Please contact Andrew Hill at ahill@wjtn.com or 716-487-1151.
 © 2026 WWSE-FM, WJTN-AM/FM, WQFX-FM, WKSN-AM, WHUG-FM, WKZA-FM, Glenora Radio Network 
 Built on Envisionwise Technology. 
