SOURCE: https://www.iaff.org/cancer-awareness-month/
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-22


Fire Fighter Cancer Awareness Month - IAFF
Fire Fighter Cancer Awareness Month - IAFF
Skip to content
Fire fighter occupational cancer is the leading cause of line-of-duty death in the fire service.
In 2025, nearly 80%* of IAFF member line-of-duty deaths were due to occupational cancer. In Canada, where most provinces and territories have robust presumptive laws, close to 94% of line-of-duty deaths among professional fire fighters are the result of occupational cancers. Canada recognized Fire Fighter Cancer Awareness Month 
in 2023
 with the adoption of MP Sherry Romanado’s Bill C-224.
Fire Fighter Cancer Awareness Month is focused on increasing public understanding of occupational cancer in the fire service while equipping fire fighters with the information and tools they need to reduce risk. 
In partnership, the IAFF and the Firefighter Cancer Support Network are committed to sharing prevention strategies, best practices, and resources that help protect members throughout their careers. By raising awareness and advancing education, this effort also supports stronger legislative action, including presumptive disability protections for fire fighters affected by job-related cancers.
Make sure to follow @IAFFofficial on Facebook,  Instagram
, 
LinkedIn, YouTube, and X throughout January for more resources
.
*79.4% of IAFF members honored at the IAFF Fallen Fire Fighter Memorial in September 2025 died of occupational cancer (247 of 311).
				Week 1
				Cancer Risks & Exposures
			More		
				Week 2
				Screening & Early Detection
			More		
				Week 3
				Lifestyle & Wellness
			More		
				Week 4
				Behavioral Health
			Week 4: Survivorship & Cancer Prevention in Action		
				Research
				Studies by cancer type, research on exposure risks, and other data.
			FFCAM Research		
				Resources
				Factsheets, press releases, survivor stories, and more
			FFCAM Resources		
					About FFCAM				
This webpage is designed to educate IAFF leaders, members, and fire departments on the science behind fire fighter cancer rates and cancer development and to provide best practices on minimizing daily exposures to carcinogens, mitigating risk factors, and fortifying defenses against occupational cancer. It offers valuable insights from brother and sister cancer survivors, sharing their experiences and perspectives.
It’s vital to make concerted efforts to minimize exposure to carcinogens and adopt healthier lifestyles, as these actions significantly reduce the risk of occupational cancer. While Fire Fighter Cancer Awareness Month is observed in January, the resources can be utilized year-round.
			Get Involved		
			Contact Us		
If you or your local would like to be featured during Fire Fighter Cancer Awareness Months, let us know how you would like to participate (options below), and we will work with you to get appropriate approvals and items we need specifically:
Survivor Stories:
 In remission or in treatment for a cancer diagnosis.
Support Stories:
 If you had a family member or someone from your Local pass away from occupational cancer.
Videos
 that spotlight the five areas highlighted in Fire Fighter Cancer Awareness Month: scope of cancer, research, prevention, leadership and survivorship, and culture change.
Images
 of Locals/departments getting involved in Fire Fighter Cancer Awareness Month.
									IAFF, Local 514 help secure safer Shreveport firehouse								
									September 4 • 2026								
					Read article				
									IAFF awarded $756,700 grant to expand PSOB assistance								
									July 23 • 2026								
					Read article				
									Fire fighters, cancer risk, and women’s health: What’s known – and what’s still emerging								
									May 19 • 2026								
					Read article				
