SOURCE: https://www.iaff.org/news/iaff-sets-top-legislative-priorities-for-119th-congress/
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-21


IAFF sets top legislative priorities for 119th Congress  - IAFF
IAFF sets top legislative priorities for 119th Congress  - IAFF
Skip to content
Have a question? Ask here.
 × 
↑
Advocacy
Issues
Safety & Protection
Pay & Benefits
Collective Bargaining
Cancer
Presumptive Health
Securing Minimum Staffing
Take Action
Legislative Scorecard
Advocacy Center
FIREPAC
Run for Office
Register to Vote
Political Action
Legislative Action
Why We Fight
We are a union that is proud to fight for you, your family, and your community. We support politicians and policies – regardless of party affiliation – that protect and empower the work of fire fighters, emergency medical workers, and rescue workers in the United States and Canada.
See Our Wins
Health & Safety
Topics
Behavioral Health
Health & Wellness
Illness & Injury
Resources
Disaster Relief
OSHA Emergency Response Standard
Resource Library
Search the IAFF’s comprehensive collection of health and safety resources in one easy-to-use hub. Find documents, videos, reports, advisories, graphics, and presentations on cancer prevention, wildfire response, PPE, and more.
View
Training
Technical
Evidence-Based Fire Ground Operations
Federal Apprenticeship
Fire Ground Survival
Grants
HazMat
Wildfire
Workplace Violence Prevention
Leadership
Communications Training
Human Relations
Labor-Management Alliance (LMA)
Partnership Education Program (PEP)
Political Training Academy
Wellness
Behavioral Health
Candidate Physical Ability Test
Fit to Thrive
Training Programs
Our members are highly skilled, specialized workers. The IAFF’s training programs empower and educate you in our shared mission to make a dangerous job safer – for you, our brothers and sisters on the job, and those we protect.
ONLINE Learning Center
Access our full Course Catalog and your personalized training dashboard.
Log in
Events
Featured Events
U.S. Legislative Conference
Strive for Excellence Summit
Canadian Legislative Conference
Convention
Fallen Fire Fighter Memorial
All Events
U.S. Legislative Conference
Every year, the IAFF U.S. Legislative Conference brings fire fighters and emergency medical workers together to speak up for their rights and interests. 
Details
Newsroom
News
News Articles
Impact Report
Press
Press Releases
Press Kit
Media Awards
Publications
Magazine
Advertising
Recent Headlines
				288 fallen IAFF members remembered			
				Grieving together: navigating the loss of a fellow fire fighter			
				Labor union popularity continues to rise			
Members
Members
Member Resources
My Account
Motorcycle Group
Pipe & Drum Band / Honor Guard
Member Access
Log in to Access Members-Only Information and Affiliate Leader Tools
Log in
Create Account
en
fr-ca
Search
About Us
Honor Roll
Join
Contribute
Store
Help Center
Log In
								IAFF sets top legislative priorities for 119th Congress 							
With the new Congress now seated, the IAFF outlines the key bills it will prioritize in  the next two years. 
	February 28 • 2025
Labor & Contracts
Legislation
PFAS and Toxic Exposure
			All News		
As hundreds of fire fighters and emergency medical workers prepare to attend the 2025 Alfred K. Whitehead Legislative Conference in Washington, D.C., the IAFF is announcing its top legislative priorities for the 119th Congress. 
While the union advocates for various bills to advance fire fighters’ interests, these bills will be the primary focus of the IAFF’s Government Affairs division lobbying efforts over the next two years. 
Building on significant wins from the 118th Congress, including the passage of the Social Security Fairness Act and the Fire Grants and Safety Act, the IAFF is focused on achieving key victories with the newly sworn-in Congress. 
Read more about the IAFF’s key legislative priorities below: 
Honoring Our Fallen Heroes Act (H.R. 1269 / S. 237) 
Sponsors:
 Sens. Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) and Kevin Cramer (R-ND); Reps. Carlos Gimenez (R-FL) and Mary Gay Scanlon (D-PA) 
The science is clear. The connection between occupational cancer and firefighting is undeniable, yet the federal government still does not recognize fire fighter cancer deaths as occurring in the line of duty. This omission not only dishonors fire fighters who succumbed to cancer they developed from their work, but it also leaves their families without the critical support they need during incredibly difficult times. 
The Honoring Our Fallen Heroes Act recognizes the sacrifices those in the fire service make by including fire fighter cancer deaths as line-of-duty deaths under the Public Safety Officer Benefits (PSOB) program, thereby extending death, educational, and other benefits to their survivors. 
Endorsed by the IAFF, International Association of Fire Chiefs, National Volunteer Fire Council, Fraternal Order of Police, and other first responder organizations, this bipartisan bill would ensure fire fighters’ sacrifices are properly recognized. 
To urge your members of Congress to support the Honor Act, 
click here
.  
Public Safety Officer Free Speech Act (H.R. 1443) 
Sponsors: 
Sen. Eric Schmitt (R-MO); Reps. Jeff Van Drew (R-NJ) and Steve Cohen (D-TN) 
Fire fighters, like all Americans, have a First Amendment right to free speech. However, many IAFF members have been disciplined, suspended, or even terminated for voicing important concerns about their departments regarding staffing, equipment, workplace safety, and more.  
The bipartisan Public Safety Officer Free Speech Act reaffirms fire fighters’ right to speak on job-related issues, such as safety and working conditions, and ensures they can express their views without fear of retaliation. It also makes clear fire fighters have the right to speak openly on administrative policies and freely share their political opinions in their personal capacity. 
Click 
here
 to urge your lawmakers to support fire fighters’ right to free speech.  
PFAS Alternatives Act (Pending Reintroduction) 
Sponsors: 
Reps. Debbie Dingell (D-MI) and Sam Graves (R-MO) 
Due to the nature of their work, fire fighters are regularly exposed to toxic carcinogens from smoke, car exhaust, and even from harmful PFAS chemicals in their own protective gear. IAFF members risk their lives every day on the job. They deserve to have protective equipment that keeps them safe, not gear that’s covered in hazardous, cancer-causing chemicals.  
The PFAS Alternatives Act would secure funding for the research and development of the next generation of PFAS-free protective gear for fire fighters. It also ensures fire fighters are intimately involved in the development process to create protective gear that is functional, safe, and free of harmful toxins.  
Occupational cancer is the biggest threat facing fire fighters today. The bipartisan PFAS Alternatives Act is critical to the IAFF’s mission of combatting this growing epidemic and keeping fire fighters safe as they serve their communities.  
Public Safety Employer-Employee Cooperation Act (Pending Reintroduction) 
Sponsors:
 Reps. Nikki Budzinski (D-IL) and Pete Stauber (R-MI); Sen. John Hickenlooper (D-CO) and Maggie Hassan (D-NH)
Collective bargaining is critical for the safety and well-being of not only fire fighters, but the communities they serve. Sadly, anti-worker interest groups are doing all they can to strip fire fighters of their rights to voice their concerns about workplace issues, such as pay and benefits, safety on the job, staffing, and more.  
That’s why the IAFF is proud to endorse the Public Safety Employer-Employee Cooperation Act. This common-sense bill reaffirms the rights of fire fighters to unionize, bargain over working conditions, and establish dispute resolution processes, even in “right to work” states. 
The IAFF strongly supports this bipartisan bill to protect fire fighters’ rights in the workplace and urges Congress to support those who serve our communities.  
9/11 Responders and Survivor Health Funding Correction Act (H.R. 1410) 
Sponsors: 
Reps. Andrew Garbarino (R-NY) and Jerry Nadler (D-NY); Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-NY) 
Following the tragedy of Sept. 11th, Congress established the World Trade Center Health Program (WTCHP) to provide health benefits to first responders and other survivors who developed medical conditions because of the toxins released from the collapse of the WTC. More than 135,000 enrollees in all 50 states are part of the program today. But sadly, the funding formula for the program is failing, and without reforms, the WTCHP will no longer be able to pay out benefits by 2029.  
The 9/11 Responders and Survivor Health Funding Correction Act would adjust the funding formula, ensuring the WTCHP can continue providing benefits until 2090. This bill honors the sacrifices of first responders and survivors and upholds our nation’s commitment to “Never Forget” the bravery of those who risked their lives to save their neighbors and colleagues. 
Click 
here
 to urge your members of Congress to support 9/11 first responders and survivors.   
Wildfire Preparedness and Response Act (Pending Introduction) 
Sponsors:
 Rep. Josh Harder (D-CA) and Sen. Martin Heinrich (D-NM) 
Wildfires are quickly becoming one of the biggest threats facing U.S. communities. From Los Angeles and Maui to New Jersey and Massachusetts, the rate and intensity of wildfires is only increasing across the U.S., and Congress must do more to ensure our communities and the fire fighters who protect them are prepared.  
The Wildfire Preparedness and Response Act aims to improve fire fighter training, equipment, and coordination between federal, state, and local agencies to tackle the growing threat from wildfires. The bill also streamlines emergency response, cuts bureaucratic red tape that prevents federal fire fighters from assisting during wildfires, and strengthens wildfire training for fire fighters who typically only face structural or vehicle fires during their normal work.   
As wildfires continue to ravage communities, the IAFF is proud to endorse this common-sense legislation that will keep civilians and fire fighters safe during these intense emergencies.  
Federal Firefighters Families First Act (H.R. 759) 
Sponsors:
 Reps. Gerry Connolly (D-VA) and Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA) 
Federal fire fighters face dangerous, high-stress jobs as they protect our military bases, federal research labs, and other key federal infrastructure. They’re asked to do this while also being made to work 72-hour weeks – nearly twice the average American’s normal work hours. This grueling schedule not only puts a physical and emotional toll on federal fire fighters, but it prevents them from seeing their families and friends and having time to rest and recover.  
The bipartisan Federal Firefighters Families First Act would limit federal fire fighter workweeks to 60 hours, ensuring a more reasonable work-life balance for those on the frontlines. The bill also reforms federal fire fighter pensions by including their full overtime hours in their retirement calculations. 
The IAFF is proud to support this legislation and urges Congress to support our federal fire fighters. 
					Recent News Posts				
									288 fallen IAFF members remembered								
									September 19 • 2026								
					Read article				
									Grieving together: navigating the loss of a fellow fire fighter								
									September 18 • 2026								
					Read article				
									Labor union popularity continues to rise								
									September 17 • 2026								
					Read article				
About Us
Contact Us
IAFF Foundation
IAFF Financial Corp.
Instagram
Facebook
X
YouTube
LinkedIn
TikTok
RSS Feed
Instagram
Facebook
X
YouTube
LinkedIn
TikTok
RSS Feed
Public Policies
 | © 2026 IAFF. All Rights Reserved. 
↑
