SOURCE: https://www.nvfc.org/nvfc-priority-legislation-expanding-psob-to-certain-cancers-becomes-law/
RETRIEVED: 2026-09-21


NVFC Priority Legislation Expanding PSOB to Certain Cancers Becomes Law - National Volunteer Fire Council
                  Explore More From NVFC
Volunteer Voices
Make Me A Firefighter
Virtual Classroom
Volunteer Firefighter Support Fund
LOGIN »
 Member
 | 
Board Member
+ Join the NVFC
Give »
Shop »
Volunteer »
 -->
Accessibility/Language »
Toggle navigation
»
Join
Give
Shop
Volunteer
Fire Service
EMS/Rescue
Programs
About The NVFC
News & Events
Press Room
Contact
Login
»
 NVFC Priority Legislation Expanding PSOB to Certain Cancers Becomes Law
December 23, 2025
Last week President Trump signed the 2026 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Section 8205 of the NDAA contains 
The Honoring Our Fallen Heroes Act
, which broadens the eligibility for Public Safety Officer’s Benefits (PSOB) to those officers, including volunteer firefighters, who have been killed or permanently disabled by certain job-related cancers. 
The Honoring Our Fallen Heroes Act 
has been strongly supported by the National Volunteer Fire Council (NVFC) as a legislative priority, and its enactment is a huge policy victory for volunteer firefighters.
Specifically, 
The Honoring Our Fallen Heroes Act
 expands eligibility for death, disability, and education benefits provided by the PSOB program to public safety officers (including firefighters) and their beneficiaries if an officer dies or becomes permanently and totally disabled as a direct result of a cancer covered under the bill. The bill lists 20 types of cancer in addition to those that are considered a World Trade Center-related health condition under section 3312(a) of the Public Health Service Act. It would apply retroactively to officers (firefighters) that meet the bill’s eligibility requirements and who die or become disabled on or after January 1, 2020. The bill also requires the Department of Justice to review the list of cancers covered by the bill at least once every three years.
“I applaud the leadership of Senators Klobuchar and Cramer along with Representatives Scanlon and Gimenez in getting 
The Honoring Our Fallen Heroes Act
 signed into law,” said NVFC Chair Steve Hirsch. “This vital legislation will do a great deal to help the families of first responders who are too often left struggling after their loved ones are killed or permanently disabled after battles with occupation related cancer.”
Fire Service
EMS/Rescue
NVFC Programs
About The NVFC
News & Events
Media
Join
Copyright 2026 National Volunteer Fire Council
Privacy
Terms of Service
Copyright 2026 National Volunteer Fire Council
We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.
Cookie Settings
Accept All
Manage consent
Close
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience.
								Necessary							
Necessary
Always Enabled
									Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously.
Cookie
Duration
Description
cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics
11 months
This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics".
cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional
11 months
The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional".
cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary
11 months
This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary".
cookielawinfo-checkbox-others
11 months
This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other.
cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance
11 months
This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance".
viewed_cookie_policy
11 months
The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data.
								Functional							
Functional
									Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features.
								Performance							
Performance
									Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors.
								Analytics							
Analytics
									Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc.
								Advertisement							
Advertisement
									Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads.
								Others							
Others
									Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet.
SAVE & ACCEPT
